The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of Prison Discipline and
Philanthropy (New Series, No. 40), by The Pennsylvania Prison Society

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Journal of Prison Discipline and Philanthropy (New Series, No. 40)

Author: The Pennsylvania Prison Society

Release Date: April 2, 2018 [EBook #56904]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE, NO. 40 ***




Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Wayne Hammond and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)









  NEW SERIES      NUMBER 40

  THE JOURNAL
  OF
  PRISON DISCIPLINE
  AND
  PHILANTHROPY

  PUBLISHED ANNUALLY

  UNDER THE DIRECTION OF “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.”
  INSTITUTED MAY 8th, 1787.

  JANUARY, 1901.

  OFFICE: STATE HOUSE ROW
  S. W. CORNER FIFTH AND CHESTNUT STREETS
  PHILADELPHIA, PA.




CONSTITUTION OF THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.


When we consider that the obligations of benevolence, which are
founded on the precept and examples of the Author of Christianity,
are not cancelled by the follies or crimes of our fellow-creatures,
and when we reflect upon the miseries, which penury, hunger, cold,
unnecessary severity, unwholesome apartments, and guilt (the usual
attendants of prisons) involve with them, it becomes us to extend
our compassion to that part of mankind who are the subjects of those
miseries. By the aid of humanity their undue and illegal sufferings may
be prevented; the link which should bind the whole family of mankind
together, under all circumstances, be preserved unbroken; and such
degree and modes of punishment may be discovered and suggested as may,
instead of continuing habits of vice, become the means of restoring
our fellow-creatures to virtue and happiness. From a conviction of
the truth and obligations of these principles, the subscribers have
associated themselves under the title of “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON
SOCIETY.”

For effecting these purposes they have adopted the following
CONSTITUTION:


ARTICLE I.

The officers of the Society shall consist of a President, two
Vice-Presidents, two Secretaries, a Treasurer, who may be an undoubted
first-class Trust and Safe Deposit Company, regularly chartered by
the State or national authorities; two Counsellors, and an Acting
Committee; all of whom shall first be nominated as suitable by the
“Committee on Membership in the Acting Committee,” a standing committee
of that body. They shall be chosen by ballot at the annual meeting
of the Society to be held on the fourth Thursday in the First month
(January) of each year, and shall continue in office until their
successors are elected.

No person shall be placed in nomination for officers of the Society, or
as a member of the Acting Committee who shall not have been previously
appointed by a standing committee of the Acting Committee called “The
Committee on Membership in the Acting Committee.” A majority of the
whole number of votes cast shall be required to elect any nominee.

In case an election for any cause shall not then be held, it shall be
the duty of the President to call a special meeting of the Society,
within thirty days, for the purpose of holding such election, of which
at least three days’ notice shall be given.


ARTICLE II.

The President shall preside in all Meetings, and subscribe all public
acts of the Society. He may call special meetings whenever he may
deem it expedient, and shall do so when requested in writing by five
members. In his absence one of the Vice-Presidents may act in his place.


ARTICLE III.

The Secretaries shall keep fair records of the proceedings of the
Society, and shall conduct its correspondence.


ARTICLE IV.

The Treasurer shall keep the moneys and securities, and pay all orders
of the Society, or of the Acting Committee signed by the presiding
officer and the Secretary, and shall present a statement of the
receipts and expenditures at each stated meeting of the Society, and an
Annual Report at the annual meeting in the First month (January).

All investments and re-investments shall be made by the Treasurer only
with the advice and consent of a majority of the members of the Finance
Committee of the Acting Committee.

All bequests and life subscriptions shall be safely invested, only the
income thereof to be applied to the current expenses of the Society.

  [CONTINUED ON THIRD PAGE OF COVER.]

[Illustration: OFFICE OF THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY, Fifth and
Chestnut Sts., Philadelphia.]




  NEW SERIES      NUMBER 40

  THE JOURNAL
  OF
  PRISON DISCIPLINE
  AND
  PHILANTHROPY

  PUBLISHED ANNUALLY

  UNDER THE DIRECTION OF “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.”
  INSTITUTED MAY 8TH, 1787.

  JANUARY, 1901.

  OFFICE: STATE HOUSE ROW
  S. W. CORNER FIFTH AND CHESTNUT STREETS
  PHILADELPHIA, PA.




  THE

  PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY

  (FORMERLY CALLED THE PHILADELPHIA SOCIETY FOR ALLEVIATING
  THE MISERIES OF PUBLIC PRISONS.)

  Place of Meeting, State House Row, Philadelphia.
  S. W. Cor. Fifth and Chestnut Sts.


At the 114th Annual Meeting of “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY,” held
on the evening of the First month (January) 24th, 1901, the Editorial
Board (appointed to take charge of the Journal and papers and the
Annual Report), consisting of REV. R. HEBER BARNES, CHARLES M. MORTON,
JOHN J. LYTLE, REV. H. CRESSON MCHENRY and REV. GEORGE A. LATIMER,
presented the draft of the Annual Report.

The Society directed the Editorial Board to print 5000 copies, and to
make such alterations and additions as they thought proper.

The report to be signed by the President and Secretary.

  JOHN J. LYTLE, _Secretary_.

 Editorial Board for 1901: REV. R. HEBER BARNES, Chairman; CHARLES M.
 MORTON, JOHN J. LYTLE, REV. H. CRESSON MCHENRY, REV. GEORGE A. LATIMER.

 Persons receiving the Journal are invited to correspond with, and
 send any publications on Prison and Prison Discipline, and articles
 for the Journal, to the Chairman of the Editorial Board, 600 North
 Thirty-second Street, Philadelphia, Pa., or to the General Secretary,
 Philadelphia, S. W. cor. Fifth and Chestnut Streets.

 👉 JOHN J. LYTLE, Office S. W. cor. Fifth and Chestnut Streets,
 Philadelphia, is the General Secretary of the Society, giving especial
 attention to the Eastern Penitentiary.

 👉 J. J. CAMP, Agent for County Prison, appointed by the Inspectors,
 acts under their direction, and aids the Prison Society.

 👉 FREDERICK J. POOLEY is Agent for the County Prison, appointed by the
 Prison Society.




OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY FOR 1901.


  _President_:

  CALEB J. MILNE.

  _Vice Presidents_:

  REV. HERMAN L. DUHRING, D.D.,      GEORGE W. HALL.

  _Treasurer_:

  CHARLES M. MORTON.

  _Secretaries_:

  JOHN J. LYTLE,      FREDERICK J. POOLEY.

  _Counselors_:

  HON. WM. N. ASHMAN,       HENRY S. CATTELL.

_Members of the Acting Committee_:

  William Ingram,        Rev. William S. Neill,    Rev. Joseph Welch,
  Leonard N. Walker,     William T. W. Jester,     Joseph C. Noblit,
  P. H. Spellissy,       Deborah C. Leeds,         Miss C. V. Hodges,
  John H. Dillingham,    Rev. Robert W. Forsyth,   Joseph Hill Brinton,
  John Woolman,          George Guest Williams,    Rebecca P. Latimer,
  Dr. Emily J. Ingram,   Thomas B. Watson,         Rev. Floyd W. Tomkins,
  Wm. Scattergood,       Mrs. Horace Fassett,      Rev. Wm. T. S. Lumbar,
  Mrs. P. W. Lawrence,   Rev. H. Cresson McHenry,  Randolph H. Chappel,
  Mary S. Whelen,        Esther Strawbridge,       Rev. Michael Zara,
  Isaac Slack,           William F. Overman,       William F. Schwartz,
  William Koelle,        Rev. John Moncure,        Charles F. Cripps,
  Rev. R. Heber Barnes,  J. Albert Koons,          Harry Kennedy,
  Rev. Geo. A. Latimer,  Lindley H. Bedell,        Catharine M. Shipley,
  Dr. Wm. C. Stokes,     Samuel L. Whitson,        Layyah A. Barakat,
  J. Henry Bartlett,     George R. Meloney,        Rev. J. F. Ohl,
  Rev. Joseph J. Camp,   Walter Crossing,          William E. Tatum.

_Visiting Committee, the Eastern State Penitentiary_:

 Charles M. Morton, Rev. Robert W. Forsyth, Joseph Hill Brinton, Rev.
 H. L. Duhring, George Guest Williams, Rebecca P. Latimer, John J.
 Lytle, Thomas B. Watson, Rev. Floyd W. Tomkins, Leonard N. Walker,
 Mrs. Horace Fassett, Rev. Wm. T. S. Lumbar, P. H. Spellissy, Rev.
 H. Cresson McHenry, Randolph H. Chappel, John H. Dillingham, Esther
 Strawbridge, Rev. Michael Zara, Mary S. Whelen, William F. Overman,
 William F. Schwartz, Isaac Slack, J. Albert Koons, Charles F. Cripps,
 William Koelle, Lindley H. Bedell, Harry Kennedy, Rev. R. Heber
 Barnes, Samuel L. Whitson, Catharine M. Shipley, Rev. Geo. A. Latimer,
 George R. Meloney, Layyah A. Barakat, Dr. Wm. C. Stokes, Walter
 Crossing, Rev. J. F. Ohl, J. Henry Bartlett, Rev. Joseph Welch, Rev.
 William S. Neill, William T. W. Jester, Joseph C. Noblit, William E.
 Tatum.

_Visiting Committee, the Philadelphia County Prisons_:

  George W. Hall,       Mary S. Whelen,         Mrs. Horace Fassett,
  William Ingram,       Frederick J. Pooley,    Rev. John Moncure,
  John Woolman,         Rev. Joseph J. Camp,    Miss C. V. Hodges,
  Mrs. P. W. Lawrence,  Rev. William S. Neill,  Catharine M. Shipley,
  P. H. Spellissy,      William T. W. Jester,   Layyah A. Barakat.
                        Deborah C. Leeds,




COMMITTEES OF THE SOCIETY FOR 1901.


  _Visiting Committee to Chester County Prison._

  WILLIAM SCATTERGOOD.

  _Visiting Committee to Delaware County Prison, and the Counties of the
  State at Large._

  DEBORAH C. LEEDS.

  _Visiting Committee, the House of Correction._

  LINDLEY H. BEDELL,
  MARY S. WHELEN,
  WM. T. W. JESTER,
  REV. WM. S. NEILL,
  DEBORAH C. LEEDS,
  JOHN WOOLMAN,
  REV. JOHN MONCURE,
  REV. H. CRESSON McHENRY,
  CATHARINE M. SHIPLEY,
  LAYYAH A. BARAKAT.


STANDING COMMITTEES.

  _Library._

  LINDLEY H. BEDELL,
  FREDERICK J. POOLEY,
  WILLIAM INGRAM.

  _Accounts._

  JOSEPH C. NOBLIT,
  WILLIAM F. OVERMAN,
  THOMAS B. WATSON.

  _Membership in the Acting Committee._

  JOHN J. LYTLE,
  DR. WM. C. STOKES,
  GEORGE W. HALL,
  J. HENRY BARTLETT,
  REV. H. CRESSON McHENRY.

  _Finance._

  REV. R. HEBER BARNES,
  JOHN J. LYTLE,
  CHARLES M. MORTON,
  GEORGE W. HALL,
  LINDLEY H. BEDELL.

  _Memorials of Deceased Members._

  REV. GEORGE A. LATIMER,
  REV. JOHN MONCURE.

  _Aid and Employment of Discharged Prisoners._

  ISAAC SLACK,
  REV. HERMAN L. DUHRING,
  REV. JOSEPH WELCH,
  WILLIAM KOELLE,
  CHARLES F. CRIPPS,
  F. J. POOLEY,
  MRS. P. W. LAWRENCE,
  MRS. HORACE FASSETT,
  REV. WM. S. NEILL,
  MISS C. V. HODGES.

  _Police Matrons at Station Houses._

  DR. EMILY J. INGRAM,
  MARY S. WHELEN,
  MRS. P. W. LAWRENCE.

  _Editorial, of the Journal._

  REV. R. HEBER BARNES,
  JOHN J. LYTLE,
  CHARLES M. MORTON,
  REV. H. CRESSON McHENRY,
  REV. GEO. A. LATIMER.

  _Auditing Committee._

  REV. R. HEBER BARNES,
  LINDLEY H. BEDELL,
  GEORGE W. HALL.




TABLE OF CONTENTS.


                                                                  PAGE

  Twentieth Century View of the Public Mind                          7
  Reformation of Prisoners; Change of Sentiment                      7
  The Eastern State Penitentiary                                     8
  Parole and Indeterminate Sentence                                  8
  Acting Committee Work; Official Visitors                           9
  Prison Agent; Care of Discharged Prisoners                         9
  Philadelphia County Prison, Moyamensing                           10
       “         “       “    Woman’s Ward and Work                 11
       “         “       “    Annex, Holmesburg Junction            11
  House of Correction, Holmesburg Junction                          12
  Juvenile Offenders, and this City’s Cost of Crime                 13
  Police Matrons; Needs of a Woman’s Reformatory                    14


  REPORT OF GENERAL SECRETARY.

  General Work and Observation                                      15
  Correspondence and Work of the Acting Committee                   16
  The Eastern State Penitentiary, Relief of the Discharged          17
  Silent Teachers; Cases of Interest                                18
  The Officers                                                      20
  Philadelphia County Prison and Annex                              20
  Some Cases of Interest                                            21
  Chester County Prison, Delaware County Prison, and others         22
  Statistics of Visitations to Prisoners                            22
  Police Matrons                                                    23
  In Memoriam, Henry M. Laing, late Treasurer                       24


  GATHERED FROM REPORTS AND OTHER SOURCES.

  Change of Treatment Urged--State N. Y.                            25
  State Prison Dilemma                                              27
  How to Deal With Wicked Men                                       27
  Where Death Penalty is Needed                                     28
  The Lock-Step                                                     28
  Grading and Classifying of Prisoners                              29
  Reclaimed Criminals by Parole Laws                                29
  Proposed Marriage Reform                                          30
  Contract; Price-Piece; State Account                              31
  Convict Labor on State Farms                                      31
  Road Making for Convicts                                          31
  Industrial Reformatories                                          32
  Massachusetts State Reformatory, Concord                          32
  Illinois State Reformatory, Pontiac                               33
  The Juvenile Court of Chicago                                     33
  Sloyd Work; Novel Punishment                                      34
  The Whipping-Post                                                 34
  The Bertillon System                                              35
  Results of Treatment of the Insane                                36
  Havana Prisons, Cuba                                              37
  Australian Prison Reform                                          38
  Prisons in Old Paris                                              38
  Model French Prison                                               39
  Siberian Banishment                                               39
  Norway Prison                                                     40


  REPORT OF THE NATIONAL PRISON CONGRESS.

  Address of Welcome, Governor George K. Nash                       41
  M. W. Beacom, Welcome from Mayor, John H. Farley                  42
  Response by Hon. Frederick H. Wines, LL.D.                        42
  Address, Captain Edward S. Wright, President of the Congress      43
  Annual Sermon, Rev. Ward Beecher Pickard, D.D.                    44
  Annual Address, Albert Garvin, President of the Association       45
  Joseph F, Scott, “Civil Service in Prison”                        46
  Address, Chaplain Wm. J. Batt, Concord, Mass.                     47
  Address, Chaplain Wm. A. Locke, “Prison Methods”                  47
  Address, Chaplain D. R. Imbrie, “Decade of Prison Reform”         48
  Hon. F. H. Wines on Dr. McKim’s Book                              48
  Chaplain J. F. Orwick on Prison Sunday                            49
  Oren C. Painter on Prisoners’ Aid Association, Baltimore          49
  Address, Hon. Samuel J. Barrows, “International Congress”         49
  Address, Hon. C. V. Collins, N. Y., “Education Among Criminals”   51
  Address, Prof. Chas. R. Henderson, “Sociological Side of Reform”  52
  Judge Martin Dewey Follett, “Criminal Law Reform”                 53
  George Torrance, “Preventative and Reformatory Work”              53
  Dr. H. E. Allison, N. Y., “Preventative Heredity of Crime”        55
  Captain C. S. Tremby, U. S. N., “Discipline in the Spanish War”   55
  Mrs. F. A. Morton, Mass., “Elementary Practice in Education”      55
  Address, Rev. August Drahms (Cal.), “Crime in Civilized
    Countries”                                                      56
  Hon. F. H. Wines, LL.D., Washington, D.C., “The U.S. Census”      56
  Place of Next Congress Meeting and Entertainment      56
  Address, José F. Godoy, Sec’y Mexican Embassy, Washington, D.C.   57
  Address, Hon. Eugene Smith, N. Y. City, “The Cost of Crime”       57
  Joseph F. Scott, Mass., “The Indeterminate Sentence”              59
  Testimonial to Z. R. Brockway, late of Elmira Reformatory         59
  Address, J. Warren Meade, Auburn, N. Y., “Prison Discipline”      59
  Memorial Tribute to Three Departed Members                        60
  Wm. Chamberlain, Mich., “Discipline in State Penitentiary”        60
  J. Warren Baily, Mass., “Discharged Prisoners”                    60
  Amos W. Butler, Indiana “State Parole”                            61
  Prof. R. G. Henderson, Chicago, “Psychological Laboratory”        61
  Mrs. D. C. Leeds, Phila., “Woman’s Prison or Reformatory”         62
  Complimentary Resolutions; Closing Remarks                        62




JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE

  ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTEENTH
  ANNUAL REPORT
  1787.          OF            1901.
  “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.”


In the beginning of this Twentieth Century the public mind seems to
have given more thought to the reformation of the prisoner, and his
care after he goes out, rather than to the security of bolts and bars
to hold him for the limited time. The march of progress is to treat him
more like a man capable of being partially educated and taught some
craft that he may follow when the sentence is ended or when paroled.

To this end, the statute law of our Commonwealth allowing only a
small per centage of convicts to be employed, has been a drawback to
progress, until all the Boards of Inspectors and Wardens (influenced
by public opinion) have had the courage to use their better judgment.
Convicts in our penitentiaries should, if physically able, be required
to labor, both on the grounds of health, and of sound public policy,
and such labor should as far as practicable, be such as will aid in
paying the entire cost of their keeping. Military discipline and prison
discipline--and still more, prison science--are essentially unlike, for
one deals with men in the mass, while the other individualizes to the
finest possible point.

Thirty-five years ago there was almost a complete indifference in the
public mind concerning the reformation of prisoners, but now, the
progress of the times seems to be fast changing sentiment, and leading
onward to the requirements of a stated law making our penitentiaries
more of a reformatory nature; prisoners classified, merit of grades,
and employment in manual work for health. No doubt many of our prisons
and county jails would require inexpensive additional buildings for
reformatory plans; this would give work for many of the convicts under
proper direction. It may be said that at the Eastern Penitentiary there
is no room for additional buildings; but where there is a will, a way
is generally found, though the space might be a little cramped and
exclude a part of the current of air over the roofs of the present
plant.

THE EASTERN PENITENTIARY has at this date, January 1st, 1,115 prisoners
in 750 cells, which cells are intended for one prisoner each. So we
see how our long-cherished cellular or separate system of Pennsylvania
(still on the statute book) is fast passing into the congregate, though
all foreign countries are even now following our former plan as the
best.

Our prison Wardens, Chaplains, and Official Visitors by their oft
personal visitations in the cells, have done faithful work endeavoring
to reform the morals of the men, but after all, only a small percentage
can be determined as really reformed from crooked ways, for many return
a second or more times. Much of the kindly suggestions and godly
teachings are lost to the official visitor by having to address two or
more in a cell at one time, at the Eastern Penitentiary. Therefore, the
sooner we arrive at the introduction of the Reformatory System, (known
as such) and applied to all our penal institutions, the more hopeful
for all our charges and benefit to the community in general.

The Reformatory System has four main principles as established in
Massachusetts. 1st. Classification and advancement by merit. 2nd.
Education and Sloyd work. 3rd. Trades and manual training. 4th. Parole
and care of those discharged.

This State has not yet introduced a Parole System, though such a law
has twice been passed by the Legislature and vetoed by different
Governors. At the beginning of this century, the bill appears for the
third time, but it is not intended to affect those now in custody.

An Indeterminate sentence law is still a future possibility of the new
century. At the last National Prison Congress of Wardens and State
Delegates held at Cleveland, Ohio, Sept. 1900, the Indeterminate
Sentence System, was unanimously recommended.

The Official State delegates of this Prison Society present at that
Congress were, Mrs. Deborah C. Leeds, John J. Lytle, and Rev. R. Heber
Barnes, whose report will be found further on.

The matter of a House of Detention, for our first-class cities,
juvenile prisoners between 8 and 16 years, has made but little
progress, and it still awaits consent to appropriate one of our unused
school-houses for that purpose.

The inequality of sentences often come to the knowledge of the Acting
or Visiting Committee, both at the Penitentiary and the County Prison;
and we often wonder that our Judges do not adopt some uniform length
of sentences, especially for first imprisonments for minor offences.

The Acting Committee of 50 of this Society, and who are official
visitors to the Eastern Penitentiary and County Prison and annex, have
been untiring in their efforts to reform those whom they have visited
in their cells. The monthly reports show that members of the Visiting
Committee have made the past year 731 visits to prisoners at the
Eastern Penitentiary on 15,616 prisoners, and at the County Prison and
Convict Dept. Holmesburg, 848 visits to 6,191 prisoners.

Our female members visit the female prisoners in both institutions.
Kind-hearted willing souls are found among the subscribers of our
Society, who are willing to freely give and have spent their time and
money for the recovery of those who have stumbled and fallen. What we
need most is a classification of prisoners, that all may be employed in
some work, and a merit system. The nearest approach to a merit system
now is a shortened term or commutation for good behavior, and every man
receives his pardon from the Governor which restores him to citizenship.

Eastern Penitentiary Board of Inspectors have done wisely in the
sanitary improvements of the institution the past year, under the
direction of our esteemed warden, D. W. Bussinger. The place once so
cold and cheerless, has been brightened up and made scrupulously clean,
and the foul draughts of air are no more. The fronts of out-buildings
have been rebuilt and present an appearance of firmness and stability.
The cells are kept neat and clean, and the food is much better, being
in a larger variety, and by careful economy, at no greater cost. When
you reach a man’s stomach with good things, it seems to brighten up his
countenance; every visitor realizes this. The men have daily exercise
in the yard, for health; and an instrumental band has been formed of
those in the bakery department, and allowed in the rotunda two evenings
in a month to entertain the entire population of the institution; they
have become very creditable performers.

Our Prison Agent, John J. Lytle, is at the Penitentiary nearly every
day of the year, and in advance of a man’s going out, provides
through this Society what the State does not, a new suit of clothing
when needed, and procures a railroad ticket if he is to go to some
distant home, and then when the man has a place to work (if a trade),
he provides tools and a suitable boarding-place until the man is
able to do for himself. After a time he may have fallen, or met with
misfortune, and again he comes for help that he may again be placed in
position where he can earn a support; in all these cases the prisoner
is identified by his prison number, which no man ever forgets. In
order to carry on this work for the discharged prisoners, the income
from the funds of the Society is but a third of what is needed; and as
the Legislature and Governors have failed the past six years to grant
the Society the accustomed $3000 annually, we have been compelled to
solicit donations from benevolent donors for the discharged prisoners
of the Eastern Penitentiary. The aid given for the discharged prisoners
of the County Prison, is from the income of the Society.

It seems hardly just that we be compelled to solicit for discharged
prisoners of the Eastern Penitentiary from Philadelphians, when many of
the convicts are sent there from most of the eastern counties.

PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON, MOYAMENSING.--A recent personal inspection
of every nook and corner of this old prison (erected 1835) revealed the
fact, that under the present Board of Inspectors, with generous modern
ideas for alterations and improvements, it might truly be called an
up-to-date city prison; scrupulously clean and in order everywhere,
inside and out. Our highly esteemed Superintendent, Robert C.
Motherwell, Jr., shows his especial adaptation to the work; for during
the past year 45,688 persons passed in and out under his eye, about
3,800 per month; of these the received were white males, 17,788; white
females, 1,889; black males, 2,508; black females 653. Total, 22,835;
of these 532 were boys under sixteen years old. Total discharged,
22,853. This large number of juveniles, caused the remark of a keeper,
that if he had to choose between the care of 12 boys or 500 men, he
would prefer the latter. These boys are never placed in a felon’s cell,
but in a portion especially assigned them, and are always apart from
the other older prisoners.

All the repairs or alterations are done by the convicts, and many
are employed in the shops. There is now a first-class steam-heating
arrangement, and electric plant with sufficient voltage for an
electrocution-chair in place of the gallows, if the State so directed.
In connection with this, is a Kenyun steam disinfectant apparatus
(the latest and most approved device) for the renovation of clothing,
mattresses, and bedding from vermin, microbes, and possible contagion;
treating it by high pressure of steam then by vacuum.

The officers of the Moyamensing prison are all well tried conscientious
men, and have a very promiscuous lot of people to deal with.
There is a very good library of 2,700 volumes, used by all the male
departments, besides other reading matter is furnished. The cleanliness
and hygienic atmosphere of all the corridors and cells could not pass
unnoticed. Three religious services are held in this prison every
Sunday, and excellent volunteer choirs contribute, which are greatly
appreciated.

[Illustration: PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON, Moyamensing.]

Rev. Joseph J. Camp, the highly-esteemed Prison Agent of the Inspectors
for the past sixteen years, interviews many prisoners brought in, and
often goes to court when the case comes up for trial.

Mr. Frederick J. Pooley, our meritorious Prison Agent of the
Pennsylvania Prison Society, is doing good work and assists the Rev.
Jos. J. Camp. He has to do principally with those minor cases which
are discharged with short detention and without trial, by order of the
magistrates.

The Acting or Visiting Committee of this Society appointed to the
County Prison, have done good work in aiding reform of both men and
women; often have helped to shed that ray of light into the heart of
some suffering one, by kindly advice and good reading matter; some have
even taken pains to look after many women on their discharge, keeping
in touch with their better interests long after.

The Woman’s Ward, under the care of Miss Anna B. Harshaw, matron,
impresses you as one whose genial disposition and good judgment, well
prepares her for the care of her charges. During the past year there
were received 1,889 white women and 653 black; average, 212 per month.
On January 1st, there remained 62 convicts and 33 awaiting trial.
The entire building is clean and neat, even the cells, the kitchen,
storeroom, and laundry: here twenty women are daily at work, (do the
work by hand) for the whole institution, a number are employed in
making up and repair of clothing, for the men also. They have a good
library and other reading matter, and are often visited by the ladies
of the Acting Committee.

COUNTY PRISON CONVICT DEPARTMENT, HOLMESBURG JUNC., Under the efficient
care of Capt. Charles A. Abel, Deputy Superintendent, a recently
constructed plant, to which are sent all the convicts of the county’s
charge, the number at present being about 450.

They have various kinds of trades work (limited of course). This
institution is the same as all the penal institutions of the State,
save one, lacks two things:--classification or grades, and manual
work for all the convicts. There is a large choir of colored men,
who, on Sunday afternoons, in the rotunda afford, pleasure for the
rest of the institution, as part of the religious exercises. In all
these departments of the County Prison, Sunday religious exercises are
provided, and often good volunteer choirs, under the direction of the
management.

The County Prison’s daily charge is little more than eleven hundred.

AT THE ANNUAL MEETING, January, 1901, George W. Hall, our high esteemed
Treasurer for the past ____ years, tendered his resignation, and was
unwilling to be re-elected to that office on account of recent sorrow
and apparent failing health, desiring to be relieved from some of the
responsible active duties and cares of this life. We appreciate his
good judgment, and a Trust Company was appointed until the annual
meeting when Charles M. Morton was elected to fill this office;
unwilling to part with our faithful officer, he was elected one of its
Vice-Presidents.

HOUSE OF CORRECTION, at Holmesburg Junction, usually has about 800
inmates, and consists of those sent there for drunkenness or for
minor offences committed through intoxication. Most of these are
compelled to work; a large number in the stone quarry, facing stone,
and breaking for road-dressing, different sizes are sifted by hand
labor. On Sunday all are required to be at chapel service and they have
many reasonable privileges. It is a very well conducted institution
in which this Society takes an interest; but the majority, on being
dismissed immediately return to their dissipated habits and are often
recommitted. Heretofore these prisoners were taken from the lower part
of the city, on police tugboats to the House of Correction wharf, but
in consequence of the Act of Congress recently going into effect,
some other plan is devised until the boats are modified. The new law
requires that the boats shall carry a sufficient number of lifeboats
in proportion to the number of prisoners, and as the tugboats are only
equipped with one yawl they cannot be used for this work until the
necessary changes are made.

JUVENILE OFFENDERS. Judge Audenried believes in a sound spanking, as a
more beneficial punishment than imprisonment, when a lad first shows
inclination towards evil, and many times rather than send a boy to the
House of Refuge, he has allowed him to go upon the parents promising no
longer to spare the rod.

[Illustration: PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON,

Convict Department, Holmesburg Junction.]

A matter of great importance to our Commonwealth, to cite a case--a
girl of fourteen years was recently convicted of petty larceny,
sentenced to prison for three months. Appeal for mercy, on the
ground of first offence, did not avail. But to jail, to be influenced
for a worse career, instead of a reformative effect. The courts could
not be held accountable for this state of affairs. Indeed it would be
hard to find anywhere a more conscientious and just judge than Judge
Biddle, before whom the case came. Our Judges are not lawmakers,
and must interpret the law as it exists, and follow the statutory
provisions enacted by the Legislature, and there is no discretionary
or limited powers. It is deplorable that offenders of tender years
should not receive intelligent and discriminating treatment under
the law. But the fault is in the inadequacy of the law. Pennsylvania
seems to be far behind some other States in penal, and particularly in
reformative legislation respecting children. In other States, notably
Michigan, Iowa, Illinois, Massachusetts, legislation has been provided
for juvenile and adult offenders, which has already born much fruit and
promises greater results for the future. The working of the probation
system in Massachusetts--where it has been in operation nine years
appears to have more than justified the hopes of those who introduced
the reforms. In Massachusetts more than 5,000 are released annually
on probation, and the relapses to criminal life are very few. The
system seems specially adapted to minors. There is every reason why
Pennsylvania should take some forward step in enacting laws relating to
young offenders.

Where modern legislation of this character has been tried it has had
very great beneficial influence in reforming offenders and saving them
from a criminal life, and in addition has saved the State money.

Where we were clearly shown at the last National Prison Congress, that
our actual cost of crime in Philadelphia was $3.50 per capita for the
whole population of the country, equal to $3,250,000 for this city it
seems appalling, and we need to use the best known methods of reform to
lessen the exacting taxation.

THE POLICE MATRONS at our station-houses have all proved well chosen
and competent helps to the distressed wife and children, and to many
a young girl who has commenced a life of shame brought under their
observation by the officers. The entire number of women reported by
the sixteen matrons, during the fiscal year as under their charge was
4,233. Of these many were aged, demented and homeless; those lost or
seeking shelter were 773. Many were young, some strangers in the city,
and to city life, who were restored, by a little effort, to respectable
homes; some victims of the crimes of others or shamed and discouraged
by disgrace.

The entire number of children reported is 2,978. Brought by parents,
279. Brought on personal charges for offences, 756. Lost, 1,498. The
monthly reports of these devoted Matrons, to the Associated Committees,
are filled with special cases of interest, and stir all true devotion
to earnestness to devise new plans to reach and help the sufferers.

Mrs. L. W. Fletcher of the 6th District and Mrs. J. Poole of the 19th
District are the oldest matrons in the work, having held appointment
since September, 1886. Mrs. Fletcher has to do with that known as the
tenderloin section, Eleventh street above Race. Within this district
dwells a larger portion of girls and women whose vocation makes them
liable to arrest more than any of the other thirty districts. Mrs.
Fletcher has proved well-fitted for the work, the combination of good
common sense, sympathetic gentleness and determined spirit which is
hers, is one that is needed in the Sixth District more than any other
perhaps. Mrs. Fletcher speaks of the many unfortunate girls brought
to her as “her girls.” “They are to be pitied as much as condemned.
Force of circumstances, I have learned, drives the majority of them
into the lives they lead. Contact with them has taught me that few of
them are wholly bad. Many can be made to see the folly of vice and led
to abandon it.” She speaks authoritatively, and keeps track of many
reclaimed, who are happy in their several employments as wage-earners,
and owe their present happiness to her timely advice and sympathy.

Chinatown is in this division, and it exerts its worst influence; but
kindness wins. They are not locked up in cells, but the matron places
them in an upper room or ward. The matron is very seldom used roughly,
her appearance seems to command respect, even from the most abandoned.
She often accompanies them to court trial, and it is a comfort to them,
they never fail to appreciate.

All our seventeen police matrons seem to be well-fitted for their work.
Some of our lieutenants who have heretofore opposed having matrons for
the female portion at station-houses, are beginning to see the folly of
their former judgment. Our statute law requires every station-house to
have a matron. Why is it not obeyed in the other fourteen districts?

WOMAN’S PRISON.--The women of the city of Brooklyn, N. Y., are urging
the establishment there of a Woman’s Prison. How much better if it
were a Reformatory. This is sadly needed in State of Pennsylvania,
and especially in Philadelphia for the 350 women in our Penitentiary,
County Prison and House of Correction; at the present time there is a
movement to ask the Legislature to establish a Reformatory prison for
women in the eastern part of Pennsylvania.

[Illustration: MRS. L. W. FLETCHER,

Police Matron, Sixth District, Philadelphia.]




TWELFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF JOHN J. LYTLE, GENERAL SECRETARY.


In presenting this, my Twelfth Annual Report, I feel more and more
solemnly impressed with the magnitude of the work in which I have
been for so many years engaged, the importance of which cannot be
overestimated and I have faithfully endeavored to perform my duty,
seeking for Divine guidance in all of my undertakings. The Pennsylvania
Prison Society has its officers and an Acting Committee of fifty other
members, who, by act of the Legislature, are made official visitors to
the Penitentiary and County Prisons. They are particularly interested
in visiting the Eastern Penitentiary and the two County Prisons in this
city, and the House of Correction--though we have members who visit the
County Prisons of the State and make reports to the General Committee.
The members, after a careful visitation of the convicts in their cells,
endeavor to gain their confidence, and thus become friends to them,
which is kept up frequently long after their discharge. We encourage a
correspondence with them after they leave the prison, so that we can
retain an influence over them for good and continued good.

Many interesting letters have been received, showing that what has been
done was warmly appreciated, and instances are not wanting where they
are leading honest lives, and are willing to admit that the lives they
had been leading were dragging them down in ruin and could thankfully
say that their incarceration had been a blessing to them, and they had
determined with the Lord’s help, to lead better lives.

We have earnest, faithful Christian women members of the committee who
visit the women prisoners of the Penitentiary, the County Prisons, and
the House of Correction. In this connection I desire to call attention
to the efforts which are being made to establish a temporary Home for
discharged women prisoners, an institution which has been much needed,
where they can remain a short time until they can obtain situations,
in the meantime being under Christian influences. There is also the
Howard Institution for discharged women prisoners, situated on Popular
street, near Sixteenth street, where they have a comfortable home and
are taught house-work and laundry, and being expected to stay at least
six months, there is hope for reformation for those who desire to lead
better lives.


CORRESPONDENCE.

There continues to be an increasing interest in the subject of
Penology, very much attributed to the publicity given through the
meetings of the National Prison Congress held in various parts of
the country. I receive very many letters asking for information and
especially from libraries asking for complete files of our “Journal of
Prison Discipline and Philanthropy,” speaking of it as a very valuable
publication. As our back numbers are now all disposed, and as requests
continue to pour in upon us, I would be pleased if any to whom this
Journal is sent, have back numbers previous to 1900 which they do not
wish to keep, would send to the Secretary Fifth and Chestnut Sts.,
Phila.; it would enable us to fill orders from libraries.


WORK OF THE SOCIETY AND ITS ACTING COMMITTEE.

The Acting Committee meets monthly when reports are received from the
Visiting Committee of the Eastern State Penitentiary, the two County
Prisons, House of Correction, “Associated Committee of Women on Police
Matrons,” General Secretary and from many of the County Prisons of the
State.

It is much to be regretted that the press of our city gives so much
publicity to the time when noted criminals are discharged. The
impropriety of this is especially noticeable where the separate system
prevails, for it undoes the secrecy which is so essential to reform.
By it old crimes are recounted, and no matter how much a man desires
to reform the way is closed for his obtaining employment, and he sees
nothing else than to go back to his former criminal life. Every one
should have an opportunity to reform, and his former career should not
be published to the world. There have been cases where the press told
in advance when a certain criminal was to be released, and I have seen
crowds of men and boys waiting to see such a one come out.


THE EASTERN STATE PENITENTIARY.

For the benefit of those who have not seen our former Journals it
may be again well to state that the institution is visited by a
sub-committee of the Acting Committee set apart for this service, to
each of whom is assigned a particular division, which he under the
Constitution and By-Laws is expected to visit “at least once in two
weeks and oftener if convenient.” (Extract from the Constitution.) Rev.
Joseph Welch and his able assistant, Rev. H. Cresson McHenry devote
their whole time to visiting the prisoners, and are doing a noble
work for their spiritual good. Their task is a great one for with a
population of over 1,200 it taxes their time to the utmost--this then
is where the members of the Acting Committee perform valuable service.

From monthly reports received from those members it appears that 731
visits have been made to the Penitentiary during the past year, and
15,616 visits have been made to prisoners either inside the cells or at
the cell doors. As many of the members failed to send in reports, the
number visited will much exceed this.

The total amount expended for the relief of discharged prisoners
from the Eastern Penitentiary and County Prison during the year was
$3,364.03.

As the Legislature has for many years failed to make any appropriation
for furnishing clothes or tools to those discharged, the whole burden
of doing this rests upon our Society. Our income is entirely inadequate
to do even a tithe of this large expense. We could only accomplish it
by the liberality of our donors, for which we thank them, and desire
their continued aid.

As for my own especial work at the Eastern Penitentiary, I visit
there daily in addition to the many other duties I have to perform in
connection with my office as General Secretary. I feel as time rolls
on solemnly impressed with the magnitude and importance of the work
in which I have for many years been engaged. No person leaves that
prison without my visiting him several times previous to discharge,
ascertaining their needs, and providing them with suitable clothes,
that they may make a respectable appearance in looking for work;
pleading, too, with them to give up all their sinful ways, and give
their hearts to the Lord--for there are no joys comparable to the “Joys
of God’s Salvation.” As I visit from cell to cell, not only at the
time of discharge, but long previous to that, a feeling of awe comes
over me as I realize that here is a soul to be saved or lost, one who
has had no thought or concern for his soul’s salvation, and the query
arises, have I, have we as visitors, done our duty, our whole duty, in
telling him there is the promise that “whosoever shall call upon the
name of the Lord shall be saved,” and that Jesus Christ our Saviour and
Redeemer, came into the world to seek and to save those that were lost,
and in Him there is pardon and plenteous redemption. I have during
the past year made 352 visits to the Penitentiary, and have seen and
conversed with the convicts, either in the cells or at the cell doors,
over 4000 times. I have procured 164 railroad tickets for discharged
prisoners to take them to their homes outside of the city, and have
taken many to the depots, providing them with a good breakfast before
starting. The cost of these tickets was $377.50.

I have assisted many after their discharge with temporary help,
starting them in business in a small way that they may become
wage-earners, thus preventing re-commitment. Tools are furnished to
discharged prisoners when needed. Many have been aided in this way
to obtain situations. For some days before and after New Year’s I
distributed the motto calendars to every prisoner, visiting every cell
and giving a word of counsel and encouragement, and a hearty shake of
the hand to most of the 1,200 prisoners. It has been gratifying to
notice with what pleasure these New Year’s calls have been received, as
they respond, “A Happy New Year to you and many of them.”

These Christian motto calendars are hung up in their cells and are read
over and over many times a day--such as these:

    O! the things WE call the LITTLE sins,
          Are hateful in GOD’S SIGHT;
        HE counts NO SIN a LITTLE sin,
      Nor calls a WRONG DEED--Right!

                   And

    BEGIN thou first with LITTLE THINGS,
      The smallest SIN AVOID and HATE;
        Obedience to LOVE adds wings,
    And LITTLE faith will grow to GREAT.
      The statutes of the LORD are RIGHT--!
          REJOICING the HEART.

  (PSALM XIX: 8)

These silent messengers may be the means, under the blessing of our
Heavenly Father, of reaching many souls and bringing them to Christ,
their Saviour.


SOME CASES OF INTEREST WHICH HAVE COME TO OUR NOTICE.

A young man left the Eastern Penitentiary, perhaps three years ago,
for one of the cities in Western Pennsylvania, determined to lead a
new life. He gave assurance of having sought and found in our Lord
Jesus Christ a full pardon for his old life and of his earnest purpose
to walk in newness of life. He joined the Methodist Church, got good
work, married, and has recently sent to his visitor, a member of our
committee, a picture of their little baby. He writes a bright, happy
letter.

A man who, while in the Penitentiary, seemed to feel the tremendous
evil of his past life and an earnest desire for a better one, was led,
as we believe, to pray and trust God’s spirit, we felt worked with him
and not in vain. He went into a foreign country, and a few days ago we
received a letter from him dated January 4, 1901, bright and happy,
hoping soon to return.

About nine years ago a man left the Penitentiary and went to work for
his brother-in-law, who was a baker, getting his board only. After
some months he came to me saying he wanted to earn some money for
himself, and asked me to get him work, even if it was as a laborer on
the street. I dissuaded him from that, and encouraged him to remain, so
that he might not only learn the business, but also to establish for
himself a reputation. This advice was taken; he joined the Episcopal
Church. I received a letter from his rector speaking in high terms
of him. He afterwards went to another brother-in-law in one of the
interior cities of our State. He remained there long enough to become
thoroughly acquainted with that branch of business, saving up all his
wages--to-day he has two establishments of his own, is married, and
doing well.

Another is that of one who had a sentence of over twenty years
for atrocious cruelty to an elderly couple in connection with a
burglary--his second conviction. It seemed almost a hopeless case, but
he was taken in hand by a faithful Christian member of our committee,
joined the Episcopal Church, and is a sincere Christian, faithful, and
trusted by his employer; has been out over ten years.

Another, to show how difficult it is for a discharged prisoner to
obtain a situation. A man was discharged about whom there were strong
doubts of his being guilty, not a crime against property. He was a
skilled workman in an industry of which there are very few in this
country, and such men are in demand. The foreman in the manufactory
where he formerly worked agreed to take him the next morning. Calling
the men together, he informed them that he was going to take ---- back.
They said if he did they would all strike--they would not work with an
ex-convict. I boarded him for three weeks, getting odd jobs now and
then, and finally sent him to New York, where he has employment in the
same branch of business--have had a letter thanking me for what I did
for him. Very many such cases could be mentioned. All these were aided
on their leaving the prison.


THE OFFICERS.

The warden, D. W. Bussinger, who in the short time he has been in
office has proved himself to be very efficient, and has instituted many
important reforms. It is his aim to make it the model prison of the
United States. He thoroughly understands what is needed, and is truly
the right man in the right place.

George Dorward, called the “Principal Overseer,” is very faithful to
his duties, and living in some of the apartments of the Penitentiary,
is always at hand to render efficient services to the warden.

The Rev. Joseph Welch, the chaplain, officially called the “Moral
Instructor,” and his able assistant, the Rev. H. Cresson McHenry,
are earnestly desirous for the spiritual and temporal welfare of the
prisoners, and are ever on the alert to instil into their minds the
necessity for a change in their lives, to cease to do evil, and learn
to do well. They devote their time to the good of the prisoner, and the
result cannot fail to be beneficial. It is particularly gratifying that
the Moral Instructor has such an able and valuable assistant. I have
again to thank the warden and all of the overseers for the valuable
assistance rendered me in the prosecution of my work, which requires
much tact and judgment in determining what is best to be done in such
cases.


PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON AND ANNEX.

The Visiting Committee report 848 visits to the prison during the past
year, and including the new convict prison at Holmesburg, 6,191 visits
reported to prisoners either in the cells or at the cell doors.

The prisons are in good condition, and well kept, and are models for
county prisons. It is much to be regretted that every one committed,
especially those before trial, could not be kept in a separate cell.
Many of those were in prison for the first time, and often associated
with hardened criminals, thus rendering our county prisons the
nurseries of crime.

Robert C. Motherwell makes a most valuable and faithful Superintendent.

Too much credit cannot be given to the faithful visits of the lady
members of the committee, who have religious opportunities with the
women, and many of whom have had situations obtained for them, and are
known to be leading exemplary lives. Their mission does not cease with
their release from prison, but a watchful care is extended to them
after their discharge.

The Rev. Joseph J. Camp, the Prison Agent, appointed by the Inspectors,
is also a member of the Acting Committee. He has seen many years of
service there, and holds a position which is invaluable, and could
not well be dispensed with. There are numberless cases of persons who
should not be committed to the County Prison. Those cases he faithfully
investigates, and secures from the magistrates their release as soon as
possible. Very many boys run away from home, stealing rides on freight
trains--they are arrested, and sent to prison. He looks up such cases,
writes to the parents, who reply that it is their desire that they
should be sent back. They are by that time very penitent, and are put
on the cars for home. He acts, too, as a peacemaker between families.
We honor him for the good work he is doing.

Frederick J. Pooley, the agent of the Society at the County Prison
is displaying much zeal and energy in the performance of his arduous
duties, and I can but repeat what I have heretofore said of him. He
is in love with his work, and feels that God is blessing his services
there. He says that while there are many clouds along his pathway, yet
he sees more of the sunshine that leads him on to greater efforts in
the work in which God has been pleased to call him. His earnest desire
is that he may be a benefit both in spiritual and temporal things to
those who have become inmates of a prison-cell. Services are held there
every Sabbath in the morning for the men, in the afternoon for the
women. Once a month he has charge of the latter, and is listened to
with marked attention. The committee as well as the management of the
County Prison is fortunate in securing the services of such a valuable
assistant. He takes especial interest in looking after the many boys
who get into trouble--often runaways from home, whom he sends back.
Interesting letters have frequently been received from them.

Some of the cases are worthy of mention. One whom he sent to Atlantic
City writes thus: “I take pleasure in letting you know I have got work,
and to let you know what a little kindness and good advice will do for
a poor fellow who is struggling to lead an honest life.” In reply, he
advised him to attend some place of worship and to keep from drink.
Again the boy writes: “I will try to live up to your advice; I attended
church this A. M., the first time in years, and with the help of God,
I cannot go wrong. I am working every day, but I am making an honest
living--honest dollars are the best kind of dollars--I have fully made
up my mind to that.”

A boy whom he sent home to his parents in Newark, N. J., writes: “I am
going to work this P. M., and with God’s help, will try to make a man
of myself.”

Another boy says, “I owe you a debt of gratitude that can never be
paid;” and another writes, “I am going to night-school, to church and
Sunday-school, and am trying to be a good boy.”

From a boy he sent home: “I arrived in Baltimore safe, and my mother
met me at the depot. I thank you very much for your kindness to me.”

These are cases of boys who have ran away from home, steal rides on
freight cars and are arrested when they are arrived and sent to the
County Prison, often put in with those who are adepts in crime, their
parents are written to, who request that they be sent home. If the
money is not sent for the return fare, the Prison Society pays it. Much
good is done in this way.


CHESTER COUNTY PRISON.

William Scattergood, President of the Board of Inspectors, and a member
of the Acting Committee of our Society visits that prison weekly. He is
much interested in the welfare of the prisoners. It is well managed,
kept clean, and is in an admirable condition. A new wing has been
erected for the women, of whom they have very few.


DELAWARE COUNTY PRISON.

This prison is faithfully visited by Deborah C. Leeds, who reports it
to be in good condition and well managed. She holds services there very
frequently, which are much appreciated, and her remarks are listened to
with marked attention.


OTHER COUNTY PRISONS.

Deborah C. Leeds has been appointed “Visitor to the County Prisons of
the State at Large.” In virtue of this appointment, she has visited
many of the County Prisons, speaking to the inmates as way opens for
it, encouraging them to give up their evil ways and lead new and better
lives, looking unto the Lord for help in this respect, without which
their efforts will be in vain.


ACTING COMMITTEE VISITS.

  To Eastern Penitentiary                    731 visits to 15,616 Prisoners.
  To County Prison, Annex, and
      House of Correction                    848   “    “   6,191     “
  Genl. Secretary to Eastern Penitentiary    352   “    “   4,000     “
                                           -----           ------
                                           1,931           25,807


POLICE MATRONS.

The Associated Committee of Women on Police Matrons hold meetings
monthly, at which reports are received from the different
station-houses where there are matrons in number. A number of
interesting cases are reported monthly, of women missing trains, and
shelter given them until next morning, feeble-minded women wandering
from home--children lost, etc.--These are kindly cared for by the
matrons.

It is sad to find such a large number who were arrested for being
intoxicated.

Thankful to my Heavenly Father that He has, as I reverently believe,
called me to this work and that through all these years He has given
me health and strength to perform it, and that I may be more faithful
in winning souls unto Christ, and invoking the Divine blessing upon my
labor, and that ability may be given me to perform the service with
increased zeal and earnestness, with a single eye to the glory of God,
and to the advancement of the Redeemer’s kingdom on the earth, this
report is respectfully submitted.

  JOHN J. LYTLE,
  _General Secretary_.

At a meeting of the Acting Committee, held 10th month, 18th, 1900, the
Committee on Memorials for deceased members presented the following, in
relation to our late fellow-member, Henry M. Laing.




In Memoriam.


HENRY M. LAING, our late esteemed Treasurer, died at Colorado Springs,
Colorado, August 1st, 1900, in his 80th year. Funeral ceremonies were
held at Friends’ Meeting House, 15th and Race street, Monday, August
13, several members of our Acting Committee attending.

It seems fitting that there should be a minute of record of our
esteemed brother, who for nearly 20 years--1873-1892--served the
society so honorably and so well, as Treasurer, in the care of its
funds, and who had been an active member for many years, beside also
being a life member. We revere his memory, as one whom we desire to
think of, whose manly disposition and straightforward conscientious
dealings led us all to regard most favorably.

Full of years the Lord called him, and we hope to meet him beyond the
river of death.

May this note be recorded, and a copy sent to the surviving children by
our Secretary.




GATHERED FROM REPORTS AND OTHER SOURCES.


CHANGE OF TREATMENT URGED.

At the discussion on criminals, before the State Board of Charities
and Correction, Albany, N. Y., last December, a change of treatment
was urged, that “Reformation and not punishment should be the end
sought.” Dr. Wm. P. Spratling, Medical Superintendent of Craig Colony
for Epileptics, said in part: “I would recommend the following:
_First_--Prevent insanity, epilepsy, imbecility, idiocy, and
feeble-mindedness as far as possible by making it impossible for them
to marry. _Second_--By building less expensive structures in which
defective and dependent State charges shall live. _Third_--Maintain at
less cost the cases that are chronic and incurable, and maintaining
at even greater cost those that probably can be cured. _Fourth_--By
giving those that ought to have it an education that they can use in
the institution that cares for them, or that they may use in the outer
world when they leave the institution.”

Thomas Sturgiss, of New York City, chairman of the Board of Managers
of the Elmira Reformatory, read a paper on “The Treatment of the
Criminal.” The object of the discussion was to devise some plan for
the adoption of a true system of treatment in any and all penal
institutions, and the plan determined was

“_First_--Centralization of prisons of every kind other than those of
temporary detention only, under State control.

“_Second_--That all prisons shall be taken out of politics, and that
they shall be administered by men who are making this profession a
scientific study and a life work.

“_Third_--A classification of all criminals, and a division of them
among institutions according to such analysis.

“_Fourth_--The specializing of such institutions to the end that each
may receive only that class or classes to the treatment of which its
situation, its staff, and its system are deliberately adapted.

“_Fifth_--Experience shows that such classification cannot be made by
the courts, for lack of time and absence of expert testimony. Provision
should be made for such analysis by the head of the institution to
which the prisoner is first sent, and that subsequent transfer in
accordance with such analysis should be legalized both as to the power
of the transferring officer and of the prison to which the transfer is
made.

“_Sixth_--The adoption of the principle that reformation (reformation
of character) and not punishment is the end sought by imprisonment,
with such application of the indeterminate sentence and the parole
system as the class and condition of the prisoner and the character of
the management may justify.

“The time has gone by when we seek to punish the criminal simply.
Punishment as a deterrent has failed. We now seek to reform, if we
can, and to seclude for the protection of society if we cannot.
Education and training in self-control and in the ability to do useful
wage-earning work, are the basis of reform.

“Whatever the system in any prison, it should contain, high above
everything else, the element of hope. This should never be abandoned
while life lasts, if the mental powers are normal. Omit this and
you take away the strongest inspiration to reform and substitute
despair. Include it and you give the guardian of the prisoner his
strongest weapon; and to the prisoner himself, a gleam of light in the
surrounding darkness, shining from the open door through which, if he
wills it, he may once again pass to finish his life experience under
the conditions of freedom.”

“Every prison from a jail up should be in some measure a reformatory,
an institution where the inmates received instruction in industrial
pursuits, in wage-earning labor, in letters, and moral precepts.”

Secretary McLaughlin of the N. Y. State Prison Commission, stated that
the present prison population of the State in custody was 10,350 (being
a decrease in five years of 2,311) of these 1,197 were women of which
342 were in the workhouse, Blackwell’s Island.

Among the State improvements suggested were:

1. In order to furnish the convicts with employment under the present
Constitution, further legislative restriction should cease and officers
and institutions should comply with the law in good faith.

2. The state should furnish the prisons with new and modern buildings,
especially at Sing Sing and Auburn.

3. The hope to see the lock-step and the prison stripes suppressed
among the prisoners of the higher grades in every prison.

4. When prisoners, whose education has been utterly neglected are
received, there should be compulsory education in the common English
branches.

5. An efficient parole law should be adopted applicable to the State’s
prisons. Such a law is recommended by the Commission and by the
Superintendent and wardens of prisons.

6. The State should watch over a man after his discharge from prison,
aid him in finding employment, and in the meantime, render him
assistance if necessary.

7. It has been wisely suggested that even life prisoners should be
under some system of parole. Probably by special enactment. There are
177 life convicts, many are not habitual criminals, but convicted of
murder in the second degree, while in heat of passion or under the
influence of liquor. Some have already served 20 to 40 years.


STATE PRISON DILEMMA.

Some “prison reformers” so-called, seem to be laboring under the
impression that it is possible to keep convicts profitably employed
without subjecting free labor of some sort to competition. A moment’s
reflection, however, shows that this impression is erroneous. The
best that can be done is to distribute industries in the prisons so
as to reduce competition to the minimum, and that it is the policy
which the State is now pursuing. A sash and door factory has just been
established at Sing Sing, the output of which is to be used in public
buildings. This leaves the market for sashes and doors practically to
the free labor employed in that industry, and yet the fact remains,
that but for this prison factory the State would have to patronize
the other ones. The Amended Constitution and recent legislation in
conformity with it have rendered the task of keeping convicts at work
a problem. Of course they might be employed piling and unpiling stones
in the prison grounds for no other purpose than to prevent them from
being idle. But experience has proved that fruitless work of this
sort is bad for convicts, tending to demoralize them. Unless they
are given something to do worth doing they grow morbid and ripe for
further mischief. Road-making as an experiment may be worth trying. The
Superintendent of prisons says he finds it exceedingly difficult to
keep convicts employed without antagonizing the Constitution, until the
Legislature makes the present law mandatory.


HOW TO DEAL WITH WICKED MEN.

The prevention and cure of crime, the best methods for this, says Frank
B. Sanborn, the political economist of Massachusetts--why “Prison
science is in its infancy, so far as the world at large is concerned.”
Pathetic and humiliating is the tardy advance made in this direction.
Very provoking to the enlightened are the dull indifferences and
frequent hallucination of the community in regard to the treatment of
criminals.

Gradually, however, there has grown up in regard to a large class of
criminals, the so-called “first offenders,” most rapidly in these
United States, and chiefly in the past thirty years, something that may
justly be turned “prison science.”

Its best examples are in the men’s prison at Elmira, which is the
outgrowth of Mr. Brockway’s half century of experience in controlling
and instructing convicts, and in the woman’s prison at Sherborn, Mass.,
lately under the inspiring government of Mr. Johnson.

As yet the criminals of longer habituation in guilt have come but
little under this new development of prison science, except that in
some States they now receive an added sentence when proved to be an
old offender. But the tendency is where crime is best understood,
to establish a small class of “incorrigibles,” for whom perpetual
imprisonment shall be the sentence.

This is on the theory that such can never be safely returned to the
community, upon which they are found perpetually preying, with a
reasonable hope that they can be cured of evil habits. From these,
should be distinguished a much greater class of criminals, who are
temporarily incorrigible, but will yield to the methods, somewhat
prolonged.


WHERE DEATH PENALTY IS NEEDED.

Governor Dockery, of Missouri, in his message to the Legislature
of that State, recommends a law prescribing the death penalty for
kidnappers of children for ransom. Also recommends that it be enacted
in every State. It should also apply to another crime, which our penal
laws do not properly reach--railroad train wrecking, which is often
attended with a wholesale slaughter of life, and those who commit it
seldom receive their just punishment, though abhorred and dreaded more
than the ordinary murderer.


THE LOCK-STEP.

At Sing Sing prison the lock-step has been abolished for first
offenders; it ought to be given up everywhere. The men are often
identified as having been to N. Y. State Prison by the shuffling habit;
a military step has been substituted. Superintendent Collins has
noticed that the lock-step has grown on a prisoner to such an extent,
that he will fall in behind people on the street unconsciously in true
lock-step fashion.

A gang of convicts belonging to Class A, all carpenters or masons, were
sent to work on the new prison at Mapanoch, Ulster Co., N. Y., and 250
from Clinton and Auburn. The new prison will cost $700,000. It was
first intended for a reformatory, but the plan was changed to a State
prison with accommodation for 1,000 convicts.


GRADING AND CLASSIFYING OF PRISONERS.

_From the Report of the Board of Control, Iowa._

This is carefully done in all our reformatories, but in the State
penitentiaries and penal institutions very rarely. It seems fitting
now, that the public desire is not only to hold the convict, but to
encourage self help, by a system of regular graded or progressive
classifications of prisoners, based on character, and operated on a
system of marks. Hope should be made an ever present force in the minds
of the prisoner, by a system of rewards for good conduct, that carries
with it a promotion from a lower to a higher grade.

In connection with this system of classification, a well regulated
parole and indeterminate sentence law will be enacted by the
Legislature; thereby placing the destiny of the prisoner in his own
hands, and by his own exertions to continually better his condition.
The object of imprisonment and prison government is for the protection
of society and for the reformation of the prisoner. It is plain the
State does not discharge its obligation until one or both these objects
have been clearly accomplished. If the prisoner cannot be reformed,
he must be held indefinitely, yet the parole system in connection
with established grades may be so administered as to secure these
results. It is better than a definite sentence (that does not reform)
without a provision of parole; but more effective when coupled with
the reformatory or indeterminate sentence, because it makes a stronger
appeal to the convict for his co-operation.

It is gratifying to know that this is to be introduced into all the
State penal institutions of Iowa.


RECLAIMED CRIMINALS BY PAROLE LAWS.

It is only in recent years that the idea of making a good man out of a
bad one has had any prominence in the penal system. The old idea was
simply to punish the criminal and lock him away from honest people
so he could do them no more harm. The actual result seemed to have
proved that it made him more proficient in the school of crime. In many
States this evil still exists. In New York State for example, seventy
per cent. of the released convicts return to criminal lives. Several
other States have tried the plan of releasing well-behaved convicts,
with comparatively clean records, finding work for them, and keeping
them under surveillance until assured of their reform. Here are the
results:

                Offenders Redeemed.   Returned to Crime.

  Pennsylvania       85 per cent.        15 per cent.
  Ohio               90     “            10     “
  New Jersey         95     “             5     “
  Indiana            94     “             6     “
  Connecticut       100     “             None.
  Utah              100     “             None.
  Michigan           94     “             6 per cent.
  Alabama            96     “             3     “
  Virginia          100     “             None.
  Minnesota          92     “             8 per cent.

The convicts themselves are enthusiastic in praise of the new plan, for
many of them would prefer to lead honest lives if given a fair chance.
“The Star of Hope,” a paper written and printed by the convicts of
the N. Y. State Prisons, is full of articles in favor of the parole
system, which the convicts hope to see adopted throughout the State. At
present, it applies to the Elmira Reformatory only.

Indiana State Prison, at Michigan City, has had the parole system
in force three years; 132 prisoners have been paroled, 6 have been
returned for violation of their parole, 2 have failed to report, and
we do not know where they are. We consider this a good showing for the
management. We have now 80 men on parole, who make report promptly,
earning all the way from $5 to $40 per month and their board, in many
cases caring for their families, that would otherwise be a public
charge upon the township where they live had the prisoner been kept in
confinement.


PROPOSED MARRIAGE REFORM.

The Tri-State Medical Society of Tennessee, Alabama and Georgia, in
session at Chattanooga, have taken steps to secure medical Legislation
in those three States, for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting the
marriage of habitual criminals, or persons afflicted with incurable
diseases, drunkards and victims of harmful drugs.


CONTRACT, PRICE-PIECE, STATE ACCOUNT.

Formerly the contract plan was followed in most penitentiaries, the
labor of each convict being hired out in a certain industry at a fixed
sum per day. This has been succeeded in many States by what is known
as the price-piece plan, where the contractors pay for the convict
labor at so much for each piece of work done; and in other States by
manufacturing done on the account of the State.

The contract system, where it is possible to contract the labor at a
fair price, is undoubtedly the best one for the State. In such case the
State only furnishes the room, heat and labor, saves the great outlay
for machinery and power.

If proper contract labor cannot be had for our penitentiaries, then the
price-piece plan is the best, and if it is not possible to employ the
convicts in any other way, then we should resort to proper industries
to be carried on, by State account, like New York.

The convict should be employed, either by contract or price-piece plan
before resorting to manufacture on State account. Many a warden at
the National Prison Congress, has shown that they could have all the
contract or price-piece work that they could do if the law permitted
it, but it is the everlasting fear of antagonizing force labor.

When we find that the entire output of all the penitentiaries in the
United States during 1899, for the five principal things manufactured
in prison was only one-tenth of one per cent, it does seem strange that
any Trades’ Union would be unwilling to have the State by employment
care for the health and best interests of their sons and brothers
detained!


CONVICT LABOR ON STATE FARMS.

Mississippi Penitentiary Board of Control find farming their best
interest, have leased 9,350 acres of cleared land on which was worked
720 convicts, the net revenue past year estimated at $100,000. The
State has purchased 3,000 acres on which 80 convicts will be employed,
and they have set apart $80,000 to purchase not more than 12,000 acres.


ROAD MAKING FOR CONVICTS.

The most valuable contributions in some respects, is the report of the
Industrial Commission on “Prison Labor,” Washington, D. C., in the
brief part which deals with what is not prison labor at all, but the
labor of convicts outside of prisons--building and repairing roads--an
employment which meets the demands of intelligent and practical
reasoners, and seems to solve the problem of prison labor from a
humanitarian standpoint. Mention is here made to call attention to it.


INDUSTRIAL REFORMATORIES.

New York State Reformatory, Elmira, is one of the oldest institutions
of the kind in the United States. Has about 1500 convicts. As the
State does not permit the sale of their product in open market, the
institution has become more than ever a great trades school. Thirty-six
industries are taught, beside mental, physical, and industrial
training, including education in the school of letters. Several of the
literary schools are taught by convicts trained for that department.

The trade of the convict is determined by the Superintendent, according
to the advice of his relatives, and the surroundings he is likely to
return to. Of the 658 discharged in 1899, 82 per cent. went directly to
the trade practiced in the Reformatory.

It is a very busy place, the convict plying his trade industriously,
not to be sold or serve some useful purpose, but only to give him
practice and skill; when completed it is destroyed, then done over
again. The disposition to excel in skill and excellence has a tendency
to make them better men. Almost every visitor is impressed with the
conviction, that labor here so exquisitely performed, should be applied
to some useful purpose and the articles sold.

The carefully prepared system of grading is admirable. A prisoner
when he enters is placed in the second grade; he may work up to the
highest grade, shorten his term, secure his liberty by good conduct,
and proficiency in trades and school work. The lowest grade is cared
for much like the prisoners in the penitentiary, the middle grade fare
better, have a table-cloth and other privileges, the highest grade have
better food and clothing, privileges to converse, and order their food
and pay for it out of their own funds. The system seems to rest on
three ideas--1st, indeterminate sentence. 2nd, parole provisions of the
law. 3rd, the trades and marking system. Gross cost per capita in 1899,
$153.85.


MASSACHUSETTS STATE REFORMATORY, CONCORD.

Receives men from 18 to 35; if guilty of crime more than three times,
cannot be sent here. The training-school is very much like Elmira, N.
Y. After they become proficient in these schools, they pass into the
industrial department and are employed at various kinds of productive
labor. Sloyd system work is very prominent, forenoons spent in the
trades schools, and afternoons in the shops. Prisoners alternate, so
that both shops and industrial training-schools are in full operation
all of the day.

Products of the shops are furnished other State institutions. They
manufacture cotton and woolen goods (having a $35,000 plant of
machinery). All weaving is done by hand-looms, made in the institution.
There are over twenty industries and the institution uses all the money
it earns.

The average convict’s stay is fifteen months, yet it is possible he
may work out in a year, and he may be kept two years if convicted for
a felony. About half the prisoners remain full time for which they are
committed. They have 300 acres of land, and twenty acres are inside
the prison walls, 1022 cells; prisoners go out on good records made in
school and shop.


ILLINOIS REFORMATORY, PONTIAC.

Has 1,379 inmates between 12 and 21 years. Boys under 16 go to school
daily, over 16 years three-quarters of a day. Trades schools and
productive labor, contracted out certain sum per hour. Eighty-five per
cent. conduct themselves properly, and the authorities keep track of
them for a year after they leave. The average stay is 19 months, a few
go out in a year. First grade men eat in a dining-room, the rest in
their cells. Cost per capita, $120.


THE JUVENILE COURT OF CHICAGO.

Has been in operation over one year, and it has rescued 1,250 children,
three fourths of whom have been paroled and placed in charge of
probation officers. It is against the law of Illinois to imprison,
even in a police-station, any child under twelve years of age,
before, during or after trial. In case of necessity the child is to
be committed to some suitable institution. The purpose of the plan
is to give a boy another chance in his own home under the oversight
of a probation officer. The business of the officer is to establish
relations of friendship with the boy’s parents, and with the boy
himself, and to take pains to secure that the surroundings in which the
boy is growing up shall be such as to minister to a decent life. This
is another step in that probation system which has long succeeded so
well in Massachusetts and which ought to be established in every State
in the country. One interesting fact in connection with the workings of
the Juvenile Court, is, that the Judge and the probation officers have
learned that it is practically hopeless to expect satisfactory results
where a boy is a confirmed cigarette-smoker.


SLOYD WORK.

This is not a trade, but a system of teaching, by draughting plans,
used in manual training-schools and some of our reformatories. It ought
to be introduced in all our reformatories, and would be extremely
useful in the prisons among those of long terms with work, for it
establishes practical thoughts as a foundation for a trade when
dismissed.


NOVEL PUNISHMENT.

When Mayor James L. Schaadt, of Allentown, Pa., began his office a year
ago, new ideas were inaugurated for evildoers, and generally with good
effect. When but a few days in office, a party of boys were brought
before him on some trivial charge of disorder. The offence needed some
punishment, and the parents were too poor to pay even a small fine. The
Mayor learned the family shingle was still in use in the boys’ homes,
and as the boys were too young to send to the station-house for a day
or two, the Mayor sent the boys home with instructions that they should
be soundly spanked by their parents as a punishment, and to report at
court the next day whether their sentence had been carried out. The
scheme worked well until some of the fathers refused to do it, then the
Mayor did it himself until he tired of it, and finally it was required
to be done in the court-room by the police officer; the plan has worked
well and the number has greatly decreased.

On many prisoners fines are imposed, and he trusts them to be paid on
instalments, and they never fail to satisfy the obligation. It acts as
a deterrent to committing a like crime. Squads of tramps are put to
work on the city streets without guard, and they very soon skip out of
town, fearing re-arrest and a long sentence.


THE WHIPPING-POST.

Judge S. C. Baldwin, of Philadelphia, is in favor of the lash, or
whipping-post, for incorrigible boys, and especially for wife-beaters,
as they are often the only support of the wife and children. The
September Grand Jury made such a recommendation before Judge
Pennypacker, and he considered it worthy of consideration. But most
of our Judges considered it not in harmony with the twentieth century
ideas, and were unwilling to express any decided opinion offhand, as
the whipping-post was a radical change. Judge Michael Arnold thought
it would shock the public mind too much, and that the reason why our
present plans fail is because the prisoner has too easy a time in jail,
not required to work. Judge Robert N. Wilson held that in detaining a
husband it often caused more suffering to the wife and children to be
deprived of support, and it was a serious question whether it would not
be degrading and lower a man’s whole moral nature.

Judge Wm. W. Whitbank thought the matter too radical to be decided
without a careful consideration.

Judge Abraham M. Beitler had very decided views, but the public does
not realize the situation. If they would only sit one day in court and
see the cases of brutality brought before us, they would very soon
recommend more drastic punishment. What are you going to do with a man
who beats his wife in a most brutal manner (while drunk, generally),
but who is the sole support of that wife and children? If you put him
in jail you inflict ten times more suffering on his family.

In regard to the opinion of the Grand Jurymen, that the House of Refuge
is not operating for the good of society, because not all the boys are
reformed and converted, all the Judges unanimously expressed themselves
as not in sympathy with the view taken by the Grand Jury, for we all
know of very many cases where the House of Refuge has done splendid
work. One of the Judges said:

“You cannot hope to make a law-abiding citizen out of every criminally
disposed boy, and you cannot say that, because a few cases have not
been benefited apparently, that the House of Refuge is a failure. I
believe, on the contrary, that it is doing a most excellent work in
elevating the morals of the community.”


THE BERTILLON SYSTEM.

In the past year the Bertillon system has been introduced in several
of the States (it ought to be in all). Iowa has just found it very
desirable. New York State has had it several years, proved of great
value, not only in identifying prisoners, but in the identification
of several meeting with sudden deaths in railroad accidents. By this
system identification becomes positive and certain, as often as the
prisoner comes under the measuring instruments, it will be an easy
task to lay bare a criminal’s history by referring to his card. If the
Legislature would enact an indeterminate sentence or parole law, the
effectiveness of the same would be wonderfully aided by this system
of identification. There are some who contend that “the State has no
right to use this system against the man”--then let us have something
better--a law of the United States requiring every State to enthrone
this system, and that a National Bertillon Bureau be established for
all the convicts of our country. This would be of untold help, and
many a time a man’s true character could be asserted before the Judge
had pronounced an unjust or inadequate sentence. This present Congress
will be implored to establish this National System, by the advice and
recommendation of the National Prison Congress.


RESULTS OF TREATMENT OF THE INSANE.

Last fall the press often seemed to indicate a startling increase
of insanity among the inmates of the New York State prisons, and it
aroused scientific discussion. As the number was larger from those
prisons where work was silent, it was held that the want of exercise
was the cause. But when it was shown that from the Elmira Reformatory,
where work is constant, 65 were transferred to the State Hospital at
Matteawan, the State prison authorities cannot account for the sudden
increase. Over 700 the past year were sent to this hospital from penal
institutions.

Who can measure the value of services to those restored as producers,
and who would lower the standard of care, if it would result in
preventing a single recovery? Many live in hospitals surrounded with
everything necessary to their comfort and who may never fully recover,
but their burdens are lightened and lives sweetened so far as it is
possible to do so.

Hospital treatment of the insane in this country has made great strides
in the right direction past few years, by substituting proper and
healthful employment in place of mechanical restraint, thus stimulating
a return in the patient to normal conditions, and naturally improving
the prospect of final recovery.

The hospital of to-day is not a prison. It is a place where those
skilled in the treatment of mental and nervous diseases continually
minister to those affected; where health-promoting vocations are
encouraged; where books, magazines, music and entertainments contribute
to the pleasure and restoration to health of patients.

It is a startling fact that of those who were discharged as recovered
nearly one-half had been received at the hospitals within a month or
two after the affliction, and most all of them were afflicted less than
a year prior to their admission.

In view of this fact, it becomes the duty of friends and persons
afflicted with insanity (whether in prison or out of it) to see to it
that they are early placed in the hospitals, for the probabilities of
recovery are greatly in their favor.

Music both vocal and instrumental, has been found to be exceedingly
valuable to restoring unbalanced minds; even brass bands and orchestras
have been an untold help.

The people of our State have a right to expect that its insane who
are cared for at its hospitals, shall have the best medical skill
and attention, and the best care that can be given them; pleasant
surroundings and good dietary. To this end let us continually labor to
always maintain the highest standard of care for those unfortunates.


HAVANA PRISONS, CUBA.

Urafall Muntalso, warden of Havana Prison, last fall made a tour of the
most noted prisons of the United States, with a view to adopting the
best points of our system in the big Government institution of Havana,
of which he is the head. He spoke of Sing Sing as being so different in
all its features that one would imagine the institution conducted for
another purpose entirely, instead of having exactly the same object. He
gave high praise to our Eastern Penitentiary as a model institution of
its kind, and to Warden Bussinger as certainly conducting it in a model
manner. Several times expressed that the men seemed happy and contented
as possible, being detained. Cuba so many generations under Spanish
rule, with ancient views for punishments of convicts--to introduce
American reform would seem almost revolutionary, but it must be done.

The penal institutions heretofore embodied all the unfavorable features
of solitary confinement, and with very few of the favorable features.
Education and employment of convicts in prison was out of the question.
The convicts simply served out their sentence, not contributing in
any way to their own support. By means of the reforms contemplated
this will be largely changed. The intention is to improve the sanitary
condition of all the penal institutions in Cuba, to alter the buildings
to modern details, the men to do the work; then as rapidly as possible
the humane American features will be introduced. Since Spanish rule has
been cast off, the number of criminals and of crimes committed have
been lessened over one-third. The cause is attributed to its present
prosperity, thousands being employed, who were long time idle, keeping
them honest and out of the hands of the law.


AUSTRALIAN PRISON REFORM.

Sydney, New South Wales, and in fact all Australian prisons were of
the congregate system, free association. The recently introduced
system of restricted association among prisoners is being gradually
extended, though distasteful to the habitual criminal. Those seeking
to reform, rejoice to be cut off from the degrading companionship.
Captain Neitensteen, the Controller of New South Wales Prison, says:
“There is every reason to hope the new departure will improve the
moral atmosphere of all the jails, and will lead to the reformation of
many prisoners. Already the number committed has decreased over 600,
and the more serious crimes have received a check. Female prisoners
have decreased to 180 prisoners last December, the lowest number in
twenty-five years. The prisoners make all the clothing, boots, etc.,
for the officers and inmates, beside last year they earned £20,000 in
work for the various Government departments repairing buildings, etc.,
outside the value of labor employed in the domestic work of the various
jails.

“At Bathurst a complete marble-cutting and polishing plant has been
erected, occupation to a large body of men. The waste lands attached
to jails are now being cultivated, giving healthy out-door work of
reformatory character, and supplies the greater portion of the food.”


PRISONS IN OLD PARIS.

[FROM THE GENTLEMAN’S MAGAZINE.]

Of the five principal prisons of Paris during the Reign of Terror, the
most hopeless of all the horrible places on earth was the Conciergerie,
whence few escaped, except to ride in the fateful tumbril which
conducted them to the guillotine. All the other prisons fed this one.
As many as 80 prisoners a day were sent to the scaffold, and the
feeling of terror outside the prisons was almost equal to the dungeon.
No one knew when his turn would come. Men’s faces were calm, but hearts
filled with fear. Detectives and spies bore false witness everywhere,
even the garçon who served you with a _petit verre_ might be an agent
of the Republic, whose report might send you to the Conciergerie in the
evening, and on the morrow to the guillotine. The fatal roll call was
read out daily. Men rushed to hear if their names were included in the
list of victims. If not they breathed more freely, at least they had
another day to live. But now how changed! look at the----


MODEL FRENCH PRISON.

A SANITARIUM, RETREAT, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION WHERE CRIMINALS ARE
HANDLED WITH KID GLOVES.

The new prison at Fresnes, eight miles from Paris, is the largest in
the world. Takes the place of three old prisons, is situated in a
healthy district, and covers with its main buildings, flower-gardens,
and villa residences of officials, over half a square mile.

The prison is not built on the star plan, but consists of five
rectangular blocks, one of which is the infirmary. The plan is the
cellular, and the number of cells 1,824. Also accommodation provided
on the association system for 400 privileged prisoners; total criminal
capacity is 2,224. As a sanitarium for the criminal Fresnes is unique.
As his or her present home, it boasts the proud record of being only
half full, for crime or at least punishment by imprisonment for crime
is diminishing in France. The system at Fresnes is interesting; the
authorities believe in fresh air and sunshine, those foes of the
microbe, and friends of health. Hence the prison is a model sanitarium.
Otherwise the criminal is gently educated; he works at some trade, and
can purchase from the proceeds of his work, extra food and personal
requirements, with the exception of tobacco. When the prisoners go
to worship, which is not compulsory, or to school which is, they
wear hoods to prevent mutual recognition on release. In some of the
workshops this rule does not obtain. The reason for this apparent
inconsistency is not clear.

Even the officials receive instruction on such subjects as the
prevention of crime and prison discipline, and as a result of this the
excellent idea of the whole prison is admirably carried out. A final
feature of Fresnes is the severe simplicity of its architecture.


SIBERIAN BANISHMENT.

The official messenger of the Czar of Russia at St. Petersburg, Oct.
1, 1900, published the Imperial ukase providing for the abolition of
banishment at Siberia. The Czar commissioned the Minister of Justice to
draw a law for abolishing such banishment. This was sanctioned by the
Council of the Empire, and has been signed by the Czar, thus the law is
now gazetted.


NORWAY PRISON.

A member of our Pennsylvania Prison Society, returning from the land
of the midnight sun, reports his visit to the principal prison at
Akerstuis, Christiania, Norway. When he made known that he was a member
of the oldest Prison Society in the world he was shown the utmost
attention by Director Peter Soelberg. He describes it as the congregate
system, and being shown over the entire plant, the sleeping-cells,
dining-room, baths, culinary departments, &c., describes it as
exceedingly clean and neat with a purity of atmosphere. The chapel is
very large and all the prisoners are required to attend service twice
on Sundays and also on other days.

The workshops are many, and the trades pursued are carpentry,
cabinet-work, blacksmithing, wheelwright, harness, boots and shoes,
tinsmith, making all kinds of household utensils, and weaving by hand.
If a prisoner has no trade, he is taught one before he goes out; their
object is to turn out men reformed and able to make their own living.
The prisoner receives part of the profits he made while in prison,
to help him on his release, which is then paid to him. All the goods
manufactured in prison are sold at a store outside, at a little less
price, and the people go there to purchase, yet there is a fair profit
made. The prisoners have outdoor exercise every day, they have a
schoolmaster besides a moral instructor, and they are treated as erring
brothers, called by their first name; the Director was horrified at the
thought of our calling a man by a number, when the object was to reform
him and make him appreciate his position as a citizen or subject of his
country. Women prisoners were very few.

[Illustration: REV. R. HEBER BARNES,

Chairman Finance Committee and the Editorial Board.]




THE NATIONAL PRISON CONGRESS.

CLEVELAND, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 22-26, 1900.


The meetings were held in the hall of the Young Men’s Christian
Association, except on Sunday. There were 201 delegates present. Ohio
had 40, and Pennsylvania next, with 25. The official delegates present
from this Society were Mrs. Deborah C. Leeds, John J. Lytle, and Rev.
R. Heber Barnes.

On the platform were Governor George K. Nash, Abraham Wiedner, Chairman
of the local committee; Captain Edward S. Wright, President of the
Association; Rev. D. Morgan Wood, of Plymouth Congregational Church;
Hon. Frederick Howard Wines, LL. D., of Washington, D.C.; Rev. John
L. Milligan, of Allegheny, Pa.; M. W. Beacom, who represented Mayor
Farley, and others who had achieved national reputation for reform in
prison work.

Director of Public Charities Abraham Wiedner, as Chairman of the
local committee, presided, and made a brief speech of welcome. Rev.
Dr. Morgan Wood made the opening prayer. Director Wiedner introduced
Governor Nash.


GOV. GEORGE K. NASH, ADDRESS OF WELCOME.

To me has been assigned the pleasant duty to express to you, in behalf
of the people of Ohio, a hearty welcome. We appreciate the honor of
having you meet with us, and also the noble work in which you are
engaged.

When the Association was first organized it was presided over for a
number of years by that noble man, Rutherford B. Hayes. After his death
another noble man from Ohio became your presiding officer; and I am
glad that General Brinkerhoff is still in our midst.

My understanding is that there are two purposes in punishing crime. The
first is to protect society; the second, to bring about the reformation
of the prisoners. With these ends in view the prisons should always be
healthful, but the prisoners should not live in luxury. The reformation
of the prisoner is most desirable, and he should be treated with that
end in view. If you succeed in reforming those men and women you have
accomplished a most noble work. In your efforts you need and are
entitled to the sympathy of all, and I give you a most hearty welcome
to the old “Buckeye State.”

The chairman introduced CORPORATION COUNSEL M. W. BEACOM, who
represented MAYOR JOHN H. FARLEY in his absence.

I wish to express the Mayor’s feeling of gratitude, that you have
chosen this city for your conclave. Your purpose is not to further
your own interest, but to uplift humanity. I take it that there is
a tendency in the caring for criminals to run to sentimentalism. I
think that all such theories should be laid aside, but the health and
environment of the prisoners should be good. In behalf of the Mayor and
the people of Cleveland I welcome you to this city.


HON. FREDERICK HOWARD WINES, LL.D.,

Responded in a graceful way to the addresses of welcome. He outlined
the objects of work of the Association at some length. Dr. Wines is
the Assistant Director of the United States Census, and, as Assistant
Director, thought he ought to be the most popular man in Cleveland. He
said he was very glad to come to Ohio, for it was his birthplace. What
the Governor has said about the object of this organization was right
so far as it goes. Not only do we mean to look after the interests of
prisoners, while they are in prison, but also after they have been
released, and even before they are put in prison. We want to know with
reference to the prisoner what is desirable and possible to do for him.
Dr. Wines spoke of the different theories held with reference to the
criminal class. One view, he said was held generally by many religious
people, and it was that since all people were bad, the so-called prison
class was no worse than the other class except in being less fortunate.
The other extreme view was, that the average prisoner had so inherited
criminal tendencies, that all efforts to reform him would prove futile.
The truth, he said, lay somewhere between these two extremes.


ADDRESS.

CAPTAIN EDWARD S. WRIGHT, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION.

We all retain memories of having regard for all the men and women who
have been helpers in the work we have in hand. One name will always
stand highest, that of General Rutherford B. Hayes, for ten years our
President, and to many of us a type of a gallant American gentleman.
His life and labor in the promotion of humanity in prisons, and the
reformation of the imprisoned, are crystalized in the records of the
proceedings of the Association.

Following the history of prison reform work in the world, and
especially in this country, he said, “Thus it has come about that a
cellular system of confinement in separation in the intervals of work
has come to be called the American System of imprisonment. In nearly
all the prisons of this country details may vary in some points, but
in the main the prisons closely resemble each other. No better form of
imprisonment has yet been devised. Nearly all these changes in prison
discipline of the United States have taken form in the latter part of
the century.”

“The Constitution laws, of nearly all the States have been enacted
since the National Prison Association took strong grounds in favor of
this feature, in which reward and punishment go hand in hand. A system
of classification first introduced in the Elmira Prison Reformatory has
been adopted in substance by the majority of all classes and


GRADES OF PRISONS.

As the work goes on it will be found to lead step by step to the
indeterminate sentence law, or a system which holds the prisoner in the
control of the law, until he has given evidence of a reformed life.


EDUCATION.

An interesting change in the method of conducting prison schools
deserves consideration. Illiterate prisoners of all ages, cripples, and
men of clouded intellect are brought into a real school, with hours
of instructions each day. Education is only given in the elementary
branches, but such great progress has been made, that it would seem
possible to extend its curriculum especially with the long sentenced
offenders.


PRISON LABOR

remains an unsettled problem, except its future in the South, and here
and there in the North, where the expense of support has been met by
the earnings, show no inclination to adopt measures really leading up
to its eventual abolition as a means and measure in prison discipline.

“Convicts should be constantly employed in intelligent labor or work
having a beneficial object and result. We should all hope that common
humanity, which underlies all hearts, must some day agree upon a system
of labor for all ages and conditions, it has been considered a man’s
common heritage; the most helpful to his restoration to honesty and
virtue.


BERTILLON SYSTEM OF IDENTIFICATION.

“To promote efficiency to the system of measurement and photography
throughout the country, Congress will be asked to enact and establish
such a National Bureau. When that has been secured, many facts as
to crime and criminals can be made plain to all. For the repeater,
severity is mercy. On that thought much could be said, for it underlies
all systems and methods of modern prison discipline. If we contrast the
conditions, methods, and laws now the rule in all prisons with those of
one hundred years ago, there is great reason for thankfulness and hope
for the future.”

At the adjournment of the evening session a reception was held in the
parlor of the Y. M. C. A., where all the visitors shook hands with
Governor Nash.

The headquarters were at the Colonial Hotel, where most of the
delegates stopped. The delegates were furnished with a badge, and also
a package of twenty trolley-car tickets to ride on any of the lines.
These were donated by the car line management.


SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 23d.

The delegates met at the Colonial Hotel and marched to the Epworth
Memorial M. E. Church to listen to the annual sermon by Rev. Ward
Beecher Pickard, D.D. It was a masterly production, so well filled
with good thoughts, that it was constantly referred to throughout the
sessions.

The theme of Dr. Pickard’s sermon was “God’s child, the criminal.”
I refrain from any extracts as it is to be published for general
distribution, as a leaflet, for a help to prison workers.

Sunday evening, at the Old Stone Church, Chaplain Rev. John L.
Milligan, General Secretary, made the invocation prayer, Chaplain
William J. Batt read the Scripture lesson, and the evening was taken
up with short popular addresses on prison reform, by President Wright
on the aims of work of the Association, Hon. Samuel J. Barrows on the
International Penitentiary Congress, held at Brussels, Belgium, General
R. Brinkerhoff of Ohio, Hon. H. H. Hart of Illinois Children’s Home and
Aid Society, Professor Rev. C. R. Henderson, University of Chicago.


MONDAY, 9 A. M., SEPTEMBER 24TH.

WARDENS’ ASSOCIATION MEETING.

PRESIDENT’S ANNUAL ADDRESS, ALBERT GARVIN,

WARDEN CONNECTICUT STATE PRISON.

It contained a number of striking features. He strongly advocated the
adoption of the indeterminate sentence plan, and that of productive
labor. Among other things he said:--“The absolute indeterminate
sentence for all prisoners except life convicts is, in my opinion,
the only logical method of dealing with the delinquent classes. Upon
criminals it should operate as a definite deterrent influence. To
habitual offenders it would be a danger sign, and it would beget new
risks in the commission of crime. Under it the sifting process, by
which the reformable prisoners are sorted from the incorrigibles, could
be intelligently applied; powerful motives for the abandonment of
criminal practices would be created, and safeguards for the protection
of society would be erected.”

The State might as reasonably send an insane person to an asylum for
a definite time, as to convict a criminal to a prison for a specific
period. If the management in the one case is competent to discharge,
why not in the other?

“From every penal institution in the country convicts are being
regularly discharged, who as the management only too well knows, will
promptly resume the criminal program which was temporarily interrupted
by a term of prison.

“Every consideration of social welfare demands that, on the one hand
the criminal should be kept under restraint until he is fit to be
released, and that, on the other hand once fit to be released, he
should be conditionally discharged. This system should not only afford
the largest measure of protection to life and property, but it would
also supply the most practical method for the reformation of the
offender.”

The galling fire which is kept up against productive labor in penal
institutions, is born of a mistaken or partial view of the situation,
and is not justified by the whole body of facts in the case. It is
estimated that the value of the products of penal institutions does not
exceed one tenth of one per cent of the total value of the products
of the manufacturing industries of the whole United States. This fact
renders it obvious that the economic and competitive effect of convict
labor upon free labor is in the aggregate insignificant, and that it
wholly fails to justify the persistent warfare which some people take
pleasure in waging against prison industry.

It would be superfluous to state in a gathering of this kind, that
regular and intelligent employment is absolutely essential to the
moral and physical welfare of convicts, and the enforced idleness
begets sullenness, immorality, sickness, insanity, and retards, if
indeed it does not entirely prevent, the improvement of which the
prisoners might otherwise be susceptible. In all intelligent efforts
to reform convicted criminals, work is an indispensable factor--and
only productive labor is reformative labor. Both the practical and the
ethical requirements of the situation make for productive labor.


ADDRESS BY H. F. HATCH, IONA, MICH.

“_A contractor’s view of prison discipline._”

JOSEPH F. SCOTT, WARDEN MASSACHUSETTS STATE REFORMATORY,

Spoke of “_Civil service in Prison_.”

A deplorable evil was the constant changes in prison management for
political reasons, it was an evil which had to be eliminated. Mentioned
several instances, where prisons were entirely under civil service rule
with very satisfactory results.

Recreation and privileges as aid to prison discipline was freely and
favorably discussed.

The food problem in prisons was discussed. This being a wardens’
meeting, the wardens of almost every penitentiary in the country
(including our warden of the Eastern Penitentiary) told briefly what
food was given to the inmates of their prison. The cost ranged from
7-1/2 cents to 10 cents for each prisoner, average was 9 cents.

It was also agreed that a prison orchestra could do much good in a
prison. A music hour was also advocated, during which every prisoner
should be allowed to play whatever instrument he chose in his cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

George Scheidler, warden of Northern Indiana State Prison, said he had
found that the improvement of prison food had done much to establish
confidence between prisoners and officials. He said Indiana supplied
food baked, roasted, stewed, etc., and that the menu is changed every
day.


MONDAY AFTERNOON.

THE CHAPLAIN’S MEETING, 2 P. M.

A meeting which at times waxed warm. One of the subjects for discussion
was Dr. McKim’s recent book, “Heredity and Human Progress.” The
consensus of opinion among the chaplains was that the cause of crime
is not psychological, as Dr. McKim tries to prove, but sociological,
and it behooves the churches especially to try not only to improve
the environments of the prisoners and ex-convicts, but to study more
closely the cause of crime.


ADDRESS. REV. WM. J. BATT, CHAPLAIN, CONCORD, MASS.

He reviewed the past work of the Chaplains’ Association, and said:
“That as they looked back he certainly felt very much had been gained
from the existence of this organization,” and that much more could
be done to aid the wardens and superintendents in the management of
prisons and reformatories. That criminality was not on the increase,
being lessened by public education, beginning in our public schools,
where there has been no backward step in the matter of discipline and
study of civil government.

To-day the cry is: “Use the preventative in the case of the discharged
prisoner.” Yes, but what is needed is to use the preventative
“education” at all times before he has cause to enter a prison gate.

The value of the parole, and possibly of the indeterminate sentence
when enthroned, requires that in person you lend a helping hand to such
a man to uplift him to better ways. The highest realization of our
hopes in this world we shall never see, when all the gloomy enclosures
of prison walls stand empty. Let there be earnest courage to walk and
work by the light now shining about us, for the Light of the world is
Jesus Christ.


CHAPLAIN WM. A. LOCKE, MANSFIELD, OHIO, READ A PAPER ON

“_Prison Methods; Formative and Reformative_.”

Crime is very largely due to poverty, or rather to what he called
misdirected energy, both of mind and soul, and is a problem in
sociology to direct activities from abnormal into normal channels.
He dwelt much on prison discipline as of the greatest importance,
and could not be too exacting, but that whatever methods might be
employed, no violence should be done to the man within the man; that
punishment should always be reformative. He spoke of the prisoner as
a social iconoclast, who had lost his ambition, his help, and who
sought to destroy what other men cherish. “It is the object of the
prison to teach such a personal respect for social obligations, that
nothing belongs to anyone except what he has gained by his brawn or his
brains.” He touched on the evils of saloons, and said: “Through the
doors of saloons to the prison doors pass one-half of the prisoners in
this State.”


PRACTICAL PRISON REFORM.

CHAPLAIN D. R. IMBRIE, HOBOKEN, PA.

A paper on “A Decade of Prison Reform: The Realized and the
Unrealized.” Among other things he said: “What is society? It is
an individual, of which the members are individuals. It is one in
interest, one in object, one in benefit, with the individual its
factor. Its laws are the laws of God, and it strives to keep the letter
of the law (but not always the spirit), but one thing is lacking--an
all-powerful, soul-filling charity. It is the object of public
philanthropy, of sociologists, of reformers in general, of this Prison
Congress, to bring to the social world a realization of the eleventh
commandment--to love thy neighbor as thyself.

A very able paper was read by Rev. Dr. F. A. Gold, of Mansfield,
Ohio, on “The Chaplain’s Work from a Pastor’s Point of View,” which
recommended co-operative work of religious and semi-religious
associations as helpers.

Rev. Dr. H. H. Hart, of Chicago, criticized the paper, about
delegates sent from the Y. M. C. A. and W. C. T. U.; the young clergy
and Brotherhood men visiting prisons for the purpose of reforming
prisoners, he claimed that very many were not real themselves, and we
could not look for any success.

Rev. David J. Starr, Chaplain of Ohio State Penitentiary, in answering
Mr. Hart said, that to find instances where actual injury was done by
preaching, one need not go to the prisons, we see it on the outside, at
revival meetings and other places. However that should not discourage
any one from trying to induce men to lead better lives through the
Gospel of Christ. What we need is less preaching and more hard work of
sympathy.

Hon. Frederick Howard Wines, LL.D., of Washington, D. C., spoke
about the recent book by Dr. McKim, “Heredity and Human Progress.”
The drastic remedies of crime, are they Christian? He personally
considered it not worthy of being chosen as a special topic of the
Association. The fundamental weakness of Dr. McKim’s position is his
preconceived notions. Let each one look that book over, you are not
likely to read it all.

Chaplain J. F. Orwick, Jackson, Mich., read a paper about the
observance of Prison Sunday (the fourth Sunday in October). He lamented
that in so few churches it was observed, except in Chicago, where 300
sermons were preached last year.

Oren C. Painter, Treasurer of The Prisoners Aid Association, Baltimore,
Md., spoke of their annual report, that last year 1,577 men and
women were discharged from Baltimore Prison; and that they aided 564
discharged prisoners, furnished 4,644 meals and 1,502 night’s lodgings
to men and women.

Mrs. Deborah C. Leeds made some brief remarks about reform.

Professor Charles R. Henderson, Chicago, claimed that if the people did
not wake up and realize the necessity to reform themselves, how shall
we expect to reform other men and women of like nature.


MONDAY, EVENING, SEPTEMBER 24TH.

ADDRESS--HON. SAMUEL J. BARROWS, MEMBER INTERNATIONAL PENITENTIARY
COMMISSION, “THE INTERNATIONAL PENITENTIARY CONGRESS” BRUSSELS,
BELGIUM, LAST YEAR.

The remarks were of great value to people interested in prison work and
the care of prisoners. He made comparison between the management of
prisons in this country, and some of the European countries, mentioning
incidentally that in some of the prisons of Europe, methods were in
vogue which were no longer thought of in this country.

He outlined briefly the mode of work of the Congress and gave
interesting details of the reforms and improvement brought about
through the influence of this commission.

The Congress at Brussels, 1899, had about 90 official delegates,
representing 29 different countries; and 247 visitors from other
countries who came for information.

He mentioned that the unification and expansion tendency of nationality
might tend very largely to a healthy interchange of ideas, as the
records of this Congress are made the property of the whole world
by translation. States most progressive are those who confer in the
general interests of life. He spoke of John Howard and his influence in
all the world, and especially in England.

Dr. F. H. Wines was sent by the United States Government to meet and
exchange ideas and experiences with other countries; he was not the
first to suggest the organization of an International Congress, this
was suggested by private men, several years previous.

“How to preserve the continuance of this Congress, each country
promised a permanent commissioner. The United States failed to make
such an appointment. Dr. Wines has the appointment from time to time
only, but our government is now about to take it up again and resume
its former responsibility. In this the United States will be fully able
to take its part.

“At these international meetings no papers are read, all the papers
are printed before the meetings, they are translated in different
languages; then each country, answers the matter clearly in discussion,
questions on reports, &c. Last year the United States was not
officially represented on the commission, and the Delegates did not
feel comfortable. All members are supposed to make themselves familiar
with the papers on the programme before they come up. Sometimes there
are too many questions to discuss properly. And even in our own country
it is impossible to get some details, to give a proper answer; for
instance, the United States Commissioners’ duties touching the Criminal
Insane. It was very hard to get the facts from States, for there
were so few that had any central bureau of information, it took the
Government a long time to get any from a positive source.

“Penological questions were answered by monograph reports, such as
relation of crimes to misdemeanor in the United States; reports to show
the penalty and charges; result of the combined work was one of great
value, for one cannot go to Paris or elsewhere to the meeting--to know
that his contribution will be translated.

“He spoke of the United States Reformatory statistics being deficient,
and of the prison management of the cellular or separate system in the
United States department as very meagre, and now almost abandoned in
the United States, and yet almost wholly installed in every country,
and new prisons now building throughout Europe, with a system of
centralization suggested by the State of New York, but while New York
State prisoners share in the earning, all Europe is to the contrary.

“After thirty years of fraternal conference at these Association
meetings, is there anything we can agree upon as principles, to
lay down and not regret the cellular system? The whole matter of
child-saving was conservative, but it layed on the fact of education.
Alcoholism should be banished, the army canteen, etc. France
strenuously opposed it. Throughout all Europe you see the influence of
John Howard and Dr. Wines. England has taken prisons entirely out of
politics, and the criminal insane is treated from a medical standpoint.
Most of Europe has adopted the Bertillon system, and only a very small
part of the United States, as yet.

“Of labor, there is no difference in any country, and good behavior
earns a shortened sentence. In the United States, twenty States have
adopted this rebate of sentence, seventeen the parole system in whole
or in part, six an indeterminate sentence in part. Transportation as
a punishment in Russia has been given up. The United States had the
honor to start this International Congress, which has been continued by
other countries, and now the United States again agrees to do her part
by appointment. Personal intercourse and association is the bond of
brotherhood inspiration.”


ADDRESS--HON. C. V. COLLINS, SUPT. N. Y. STATE PRISONS.

“_Education as an Element of Reform Among Criminals._”

“The course of education, training and discipline in a penal
institution should be one that would stimulate, develop and strengthen
the criminal physically, mentally and morally--one that will show and
impress upon him the folly and personal loss of defying the laws,
and becoming an outcast, and that will lead him to understand, and
therefore to desire the benefits that honesty, sobriety, industry and
thrift will afford him; that is, to aim to create in him a desire for,
and abhorrence of, the associations, the conditions and penalties of
a criminal life, and instil into him a respect and desire for the
associations, conditions and regards of an upright life. The ideal
penal institutions should combine with elementary mental training and
the functions of a sanitarium, a reformatory and an industrial school.

“In order that the State may attain more satisfactory results in its
efforts to educate its criminals into good citizens and diminish the
number of this class, I deem it necessary that the methods followed
in the several classes of penal institutions to have close relation
one to the other; this can only be brought about by adopting a general
plan of administration, whereby the State shall take charge of all
places for the detention of criminals, and shall control them through
a central directing head, thus locating the responsibility, and by
the inauguration of a comprehensive and systematical system of labor
and discipline to insure a continuity of correctional and educational
training that may easily be made productive in material results and in
salutary influence on the prisoners.”

Mr. Collins indicated, that for first offender criminals, the State had
a fixed standard of criminality and punishments, but that the State
either feebly enforced it, or refused to establish it.

Our object is, or should be one that would strengthen and uplift the
prisoner, to utilize all the conditions of whatever uprightness there
was in him, by Christian teaching, industrial education, good dietary,
baths, shops, cells, etc., in fact, physical and spiritual training.
Every prison needs one or more dentist and oculist, we need many for
our 4,300 convicts. Some of the convicts are credited with small
earnings, received when they go out. The number of the illiterate is
less than ten per cent. We need auxiliary helps to give employment.

In Sing Sing there is a bi-weekly paper, contributed, edited and
printed exclusively by State’s prisoners, it has a great educational
influence, called “Star of Hope.” At the Paris Exposition, it so
impressed the leaders in France that they have decided to adopt it.
A parole under proper restrictions is what is hoped for; idleness is
the general cause of all county jails. Now if you will only rescue all
classes, say for even less than a year, by proper parole, there is no
telling how much progress we can make.

Don’t put the old offender and the first offender together; the third
or more term men should be cellular. A general plan of administration
with a central head of government in charge of all the condemned of the
State (like the Bertillon Bureau) is to be desired everywhere.


ADDRESS.

PROFESSOR CHARLES R. HENDERSON, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO.

“_The Sociological Side of Prison Reform._”

He made special reference to the Bertillon system of classifying
types of criminals. This Government has already established schools
of sociology and hygiene at several different penal institutions. As
chairman of a committee appointed by the last Congress to inquire into
the advisability of establishing laboratories for the scientific study
of prisoners, made a report.


SCIENTIFIC CRIMINAL STUDY.

In it was recommended the experimental establishment of laboratories in
selected institutions for the study of the physical, psychological,
and social facts of criminal life and nature, such laboratories to be
in charge of experts under the control of superintendents. What is
proposed for prisons and reformatories is a laboratory conducted by a
specialist for the scientific study of prison populations, with special
reference at first to obvious practical needs of the administration in
the discipline and training of prisoners.

The studies would be (1st) Physical: the anatomy and physiology of
prisoners, measurements of sensations, and other mental manipulations,
and the heredity of the prisoners; (2nd) Psychological: the mental,
emotional, and voluntary life; the tastes, ideas, knowledge, motions,
etc.; (3rd) Social: the domestic, industrial, neighborhood, legal,
political, and religious environment and culture.

The committee was continued--directed to gather more information
for next year; also urged to interest the Attorney General of the
United States with the view to establish a laboratory by the National
Government at the Government prison.


TUESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 24TH.

“_Criminal Law Reform._”

Judge Martin Dewey Follet, of Marietta, Ohio, gave a brief synopsis of
the report (which was not read).


REPORT ON “PREVENTATIVE AND REFORMATORY WORK,” GEORGE TORRANCE,
PONTIAC, ILL., SUPERINTENDENT STATE REFORMATORY.

It was his personal views, and not those of the committee. Nearly the
whole morning was taken up in its discussion. This was the first time
figures were even given based on the actual investigation of the cause
of crime.

On the matter of heredity and environment, he said in part: “I have no
hesitation in saying that at least 85 per cent. of all men and boys
who have committed crime, if taken charge of in time and subjected
to proper treatment, will become good citizens.” IF physicians and
professors who believe that heredity is the direct cause of crime is
true, then it cannot be done, but their theory is not correct, nor


FOUNDED ON FACTS.

It is true unquestionably, that there are hereditary criminals, but
they constitute a very small per cent. of the whole number. For the
purpose of putting this controversy to the test of facts, I have had
an investigation made of the record and family history, so far as
the commission of crime is concerned. Of 1,000 boys admitted to the
Illinois State Reformatory, between Oct. 26, 1897 and Oct. 23, 1898,
these figures would be substantially true of any other thousand, as
they are taken consecutively; and were from the city, villages and farm.

Of this number there were 71 brothers, 3 sisters, 17 fathers and
2 mothers, who had been convicted of violation of the law, 20 for
disorderly conduct only, for which they were fined. The others had
workhouse, jail, reformatory, or penitentiary sentences. Forty of
these were cases in which there were two in one family, thus the
40 represented 20 families. This leaves a total of 73 families
represented, making a little over seven per cent. with criminal
inclinations traceable to heredity.

The others admitted came from families of which all the other members
were law-abiding citizens. It may be said heredity might affect the
boy, and yet the remainder of the family do well. Conceding this to
be so, and probably is, in some cases, it would not add more to the
per cent. given, than would be subtracted by withdrawing from it the
families in which two members had committed a crime where heredity was
not the cause.

Considering 10 per cent. of the criminal class to be such because of
heredity--(that is a liberal estimate) 90 per cent. must be accounted
for in some other way. Ninety per cent. of the young convicted of
crimes, would not become criminals with proper surroundings, proper
companions, and proper attention.

He claimed that all severe punishment must be abolished in
reformatories, else they may as well be extinct; he believed in the
indeterminate sentence and


THE PAROLE LAWS.

“They are necessary to the effectual work in the reformatory. They
furnish the lever, with which to maintain discipline.” In the
indeterminate sentence and the parole of the reformatory, the prisoner
will succeed when he finds that he can pass the examinations if he
lives up to the proper requirements. The length of time for a cure is
uncertain, it may be a year or two. Under the indeterminate sentence
they serve longer, than under the determinate! We all know that in
court when his case is heard, the sympathy of the jury is almost always
with the first offender.

A good citizen is not an expense to the State, and the proverb “Once
a criminal always a criminal,” is not true, for they can and are
reformed. Crime is not on the increase, and the reform educational
system is appreciated by the people, while the court only fixes the
penalty. Idleness increases the troubles in our land, and the Gospel
of our Saviour should be the study of the human race. There was a long
discussion on his paper, principally about the heredity cause.


H. E. ALLISON, M. D., STATE HOSPITAL FOR CRIMINAL INSANE, MATTAWAN, N.
Y., FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON,

Spoke of “Preventative Heredity of Crime.” He considered 10 per cent. a
very strong factor. They had received at the Asylum 175 twelve-year-old
boys from the Elmira Reformatory. But this does not agree with Mr.
Torrance, but there might be a larger percentage in a little older
growth.

There has been great progress in the care and treatment of the insane.
Our population now (Sept, 1900,) is 765 in N. Y. State Asylum,
Mattawan; and soon we will need two institutions, for the 1st, 2nd and
3rd term insane must be classified. In a short time we shall have from
1,200 to 1,500, as they are to be taken from all the institutions of
the State that they may have proper treatment as well as reform. The
life men in the New York prisons is 25 per cent. of the prison roll,
and we need two institutions, one for the convict insane, and one for
the insane, charged with crime. We have now over 300 detained after the
expiration of their term.


T. J. CHARLTON, SUPT. REFORMATORY SCHOOL FOR BOYS, PLAINFIELD, INDIANA,

Spoke of the commitments on the charge of heredity, as being so few in
that State, less than three per cent.


CAPTAIN C. S. TREMBY, U. S. N.,

Spoke of the discipline, etc., in the Spanish war, and especially at
Santiago, of the extreme kindness in the discipline to the Spanish
prisoners. The naval discipline seemed to him of a much better class
and showed better work.

In the U. S. Naval Prison there is one-third time off for good
behavior. This went into effect by direction of the court.


MRS. FRANCES A. MORTON, SUPT. REFORMATORY FOR WOMEN, SOUTH FARMINGTON,
MASS.,

Spoke of the needs of elementary practice in education--that at
Sherbourne Reformatory for Women, all the holidays’ recreations have
been cut off for the want of education, viz.: 22nd of February, only
eight of 200 women could tell why the day was observed, and only nine
could tell why the 4th of July was kept. Since the death of Mrs.
Johnson, one has not arisen to take her place so fully. Any rebellious
woman is now put out of sight, not allowed to associate with the rest.
Sewing-schools, housekeeping, &c., are for their moral elevation.


ADDRESS.

REV. AUGUST DRAHMS, CHAPLAIN STATE PRISON, SAN QUENTIN, CALIFORNIA.

“_Increase and Decrease of Crime in Civilized Countries._”

He showed that crime in England decreased 35 per cent. in 16 years,
and now it is but two and a half per cent. of the population. Juvenile
decrease in Reformatory was 22 per cent. less. Scotland 8 per cent.
less. United States last 7 years raised 1-44/100 per cent. Russia 32
per cent. decrease in 10 years. Austria 2 per cent. decrease in 6
years, Hungary less. Sweden less in serious offences by 30 per cent. in
10 years, Norway less. Netherlands falling off in prison offences, but
much increased in 11 years to 35 per cent. Russia was 6,000, now 2,100,
Japan less. France is foremost, decreased one-third in the past period,
by 46,000 or 31 per cent. in all her prisons. In 1896 there were but
15,100 prisoners. Estimate of all in prison throughout the world in
1890 is 263,500.

Hon. Frederick H. Wines, LL.D., Washington, D. C., spoke of the
increase and decrease of crime in civilized countries which caused
much discussion; as he is the Assistant Director of the United States
Census, he expressed his great admiration of the paper read by Chaplain
Drahms, and its optimistic view; but he said you make a great mistake
when information is based on the increase from the United States
Census, for the prison census prior to 1880 is worthless, they were not
taken, and the estimates were made by those in authority in my office.
The census of 1890 was made particularly by the officers, and 1900 will
certainly show a marked decrease of crime.


NEXT CONGRESS MEETING PLACE.

Invitations were extended by the following cities--Philadelphia,
Detroit, Chattanooga, Kansas City, Cincinnati, Niagara Falls. The
Delegate Committee met after adjournment and decided on Kansas City.


ENTERTAINMENT OF THE CONGRESS.

This afternoon at two o’clock, all met at the hotel for a drive; forty
open carriages, drags, tally-hos, &c., with teams varying from two to
five horses, were provided by the gentlemen of the city, very elegant
turnouts; and all were taken to the Garfield Monument, thence through
the park to the lake front, returned about seven o’clock. On the way
all were refreshed in the park with lemonade. The drive was greatly
enjoyed by all, as we were taken through the finest parts of the city,
and saw the bright side.


TUESDAY EVENING.

Dr. J. F. Gilmore, Warden Central Prison, Toronto, Canada, invited the
Congress to a meeting to be held Thursday, Sept. 27th, at Toronto in
behalf of the Charities and Correction of Canada.

W. E. Shefton, Supt. of the Ohio Reformatory, at Mansfield, invited the
Congress to visit that institution before they returned home.


JOSÉ F. GODOY, FIRST SECRETARY OF THE MEXICAN EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.
C.,

Spoke of its prisons; they were partially after our cellular plan,
partly under the State government, and partly by private enterprise in
the lesser misdemeanors. That the prison officials were required to
keep a very minute description of every man, and that they were treated
morally and physically according as the several cases required, that
there was no absolute settled plan, that every man should be treated
alike, as in most of the United States, but that there was a tendency
in that direction.


ADDRESS, HON. EUGENE SMITH, NEW YORK CITY.

“_The Cost of Crime._”

It was very comprehensive, and the figures quoted giving the estimates
and cost of crime, especially in large cities were astonishing. Mr.
Smith held that municipal and county taxation was very largely due to
crime; that there was hardly any taxation, federal, State, county or
municipal, but what could be greatly reduced except for the existence
of crime.

In order to come to some definite conclusion as to the cost, Mr. Smith
quoted statistics from representative cities, New York, Cleveland,
Chicago, St. Louis, San Francisco, Richmond, Charleston, and New
Orleans.


SOME STARTLING FIGURES.

New York, during the year 1899, paid from the public treasury for items
wholly due to crime the sum of $12,988,804. Then he mentioned many
other expenditures which were partly chargeable to crime aggregating
$7,889,259, making a total of $20,778,083. In comparing these figures
with the population of New York, Mr. Smith concluded that crime in the
American metropolis cost the people about $6 per capita annually. In
San Francisco it ran about $5 per capita, and in other cities mentioned
from $3 to $3.50 per capita. The excess in New York and San Francisco,
was partly explained from the fact, that the figures quoted included
county taxation.

The speaker then gave comprehensive statements, from which he gathered
conclusions as to the cost of crime in the rural districts, adding
that a very conservative estimate would be $1.00 per capita per year.
Estimating that the present population of the country was 75,000,000
and that 40 per cent. lived in cities of above 8,000 inhabitants,
he placed the total cost of crime at $150,000,000 per year. To this
he added $50,000,000 from federal and State taxes, making the total
$200,000,000 per year.

These figures, said Mr. Smith, inaccurate as they may seem to be,
prove that crime is by far the largest factor with which political
economy has to deal. The only other item of expense that comes near to
it is the maintainance of the public schools, which for the same year
aggregate about $139,000,000. But the enormous expenditure mentioned is
only for the prevention of crime.

The city of New York expends each year an enormous sum for maintaining
its fire department, but that is not the only expense caused through
the existence of fires. No possible statistics can be compiled to give
an estimate for the cost of property stolen and the suffering caused by
crime.

These facts are real, not estimated.


THE AVERAGE STEAL.

To obtain an estimate of this cost, however, the speaker said that
$1,600 per year was the amount of money stolen by the average habitual
criminal, and it was certainly a conservative estimate; there were at
present 100,000 prisoners in confinement, of whom 40 or 50 per cent.
were habitual; but this did not represent the cost of drunkenness
which, he said, is generally crime in its most debased form, nor the
cost of crime which was never detected. Adding up all these items of
expense chargeable to crime, the speaker produced the enormous sum of
$600,000,000 per year, which, he said, exceeded the value of the cotton
or wheat crop. Any help for the future must come by regenerating the
people by Christianity.

JOSEPH F. SCOTT, SUPERINTENDENT MASSACHUSETTS REFORMATORY,
offered a resolution, the substance of which was: That this Prison
Association endorse the “Indeterminate sentence law system, and
recommend that the various States adopt it as part of their criminal
jurisprudence.”

There was considerable discussion, and it was referred to a committee
to report at the closing session.

The Committee on Place for holding the next Congress reported that they
had selected Kansas City for September, 1901, and that Philadelphia had
made a bold fight for it. It was voted by the Congress to accept the
report of the committee, and made it unanimous.

A resolution was passed, as a matter of testimonial of past duties to
Mr. Z. R. Brockway, who had resigned the charge of Elmira Reformatory,
N. Y.


WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26TH, A. M.--CHAPLAINS’ MEETING.

Beside routine work, reference was made to Dr. McKim’s book. Chaplain
Batt spoke of the “Exaggerated value set upon human life,” page 185.
“Plans innumerable devised but all fail,” “and that literature of
the Congress is not such as is desirable for the betterment of the
prisoners, so that it rests mostly with the chaplains.”


J. WARREN MEADE, WARDEN AUBURN STATE PRISON, N. Y.,

Spoke of prison discipline. Best way to reach a man’s heart was through
his stomach. That it was very necessary to give attention to the
appointment of the officers, in order to impress the men with a care
and cleanliness. The criminal should have a time to sing if he chose,
and should be assisted in fitting himself for life-work in the world.

The dungeon cells are sufficient punishment for any infraction without
resorting to a paddle. Said he could not imagine how Massachusetts
could have a fixed commutation for life sentences, except they use the
Life Ins. Co.‘s approximate longevity table, like age 34 to serve 25
years, age 40 to serve 16 years, and so on. Good discipline has the
effect to remove criminal desires.

Both T. E. Ellison, Fort Wayne, Ind., and Gen. R. Brinkerhoff, of
Ohio, remarked that the wardens and superintendents summoned daily the
overseers, guards, etc., to discuss the wants, needs, and peculiarities
of convicts, in order to be in touch of all his employees, and to the
prisoners by the overseers.


MEMORIAL TRIBUTE

Was recorded on the death of Michael J. Cassidy, Phila., Pa.; Joseph
Nicholson, Detroit, Mich.; Mr. Yale, California, members of the
Association.

WILLIAM CHAMBERLAIN, warden State Prison, Jackson, Mich., spoke of
discipline in his State Penitentiary, that the conditions were laid
down by the State Board of Control. The law governing penitentiary
officers, wardens and chaplains, is that they become acquainted with
the inner life of the prisoner, and there is a desire on the part of
the men to conform to the rules. There are always some incorrigibles.
We have a system of graded schools, and graded prisoners. Four and a
half hours a week for discipline of prisoners, the officers become
acquainted with the natural abilities of the prisoner, and are able to
report fully to the warden. There are two ways of governing the man,
Force or Persuasion, the latter, the best of all, if it succeeds.

Life terms in Colorado average less than 9 years, longest term is 16
years. There are now 160 life terms.

Chaplain Batt thought we ought not to use the words “Criminal and
Convict”; in Massachusetts it was never used, but “Prisoners and Men”;
never inmates, they hated to be called inmates.

Many of the wardens claimed it impossible to hold any conference daily
with employees. At Concord, Mass., Reformatory they meet at 5.30 P. M.
daily. Chaplain Batt spoke of heads of prisons summoning employees for
detail work, and referred to the report of Commodore Nelson summoning
all his officers to his ship, to make ready for the battle; the battle
was really fought in the cabin of his own flagship.


C. P. HOYT, WARDEN, BUENA, COLORADO,

Said corporal punishment if judiciously used, is really the best mode
of punishment and that there should be but one grade only in the same
prison. When a man does well, give him a ticket of parole.


J. WARREN BAILY, MASSACHUSETTS,

Spoke about discharged prisoners, what shall be done with them, how
shall he be aided, and how long? Best way, to seek some employment
or trade for him on his discharge. Aid should begin when he enters
the prison gate and continue till he goes out. (Reference was made
to the Penna. Prison Journal “At the Prison Gate.”) No person should
be discharged a citizen, but paroled for a time, with continuous
oversight. What we need is graded reformatories, with three grades,
place him in the second, and he can work up to the first, or drop back
to the third, and then has to work up to the first before he can be
paroled. Spoke of the need of well-managed prisons and reformatories,
where vast numbers had gone through the three grades and come out good
citizens.


OREN C. PAINTER, OF BALTIMORE, MARYLAND,

Read a paper about The Prisoners’ Aid Association of Baltimore.


AMOS W. BUTLER, IND., SEC’TY BOARD STATE CHARITIES,

Spoke of the State parole that out of 717 paroled, places were found
for all but 3, one blind, one cripple, one insane; of this number, 12
failed to report monthly; 9 were returned to the reformatory. No man is
released except for the maximum time, and the oversight is continued
until the time is completed.


CONNECTICUT REQUIRES

That thirty days before the prisoner goes out, he shall be seen by the
committee on discharged prisoners, furnished food and board for a time,
and work; that there has not in five years, in that reformatory, been
a single infringement. It turned out that out of 100, only 18 had been
paroled in five years.

Report of Committee on Mr. Scott’s resolution. Specific action was
deferred till next year. Only passed the sentiment or voice of the
Congress “in favor of immediate sentences.”


WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, CLOSING SESSION.

Professor R. G. Henderson read a paper on Psychological Laboratory in
Prisons. Recommended that one be established, to try it.

      _Physical._     |    _Psychological._    |    _Sociological._
                      |                        |
  Anatomy, heredity,  | Knowledge, emotion,    | Legal, political,
   physiology, mental.|  mental tastes, ideas. |  religious, domestic,
                      |                        |  industrial environment,
                      |                        |  culture.

Dr. Wines remarked, “I am not an anti-penologist, have no opinions to
enforce. In the United States census there is opportunity to examine
all the matter concerning prisoners. Each prison and reformatory was
furnished with a complete case, to study fully before reply, and if the
wardens also help give it, a more correct record can be made, and the
Government take up all the matter, furnish the apparatus and the men to
do the work.”

Mrs. Deborah C. Leeds suggested a vote of recommendation of the
Congress, that a “woman’s prison or reformatory” be established in
every State, passed.


COMPLIMENTARY RESOLUTIONS TO

The Local Committee and the Young Men’s Christian Association for the
delightful carriage ride, the newspapers, the Street Railway Company,
the Old Stone Church, Rev. W. D. Pickard, D.D., for his admirable
sermon, and Dr. S. B. Barrows for his paper on criminal law, were
passed by a rising vote.

It was stated that in Indiana Industrial School for Girls each one was
kept separate, or cellular. In Massachusetts women are sent to jail,
then to a reformatory, but if convicted more than twice are sent to
prison.

Rev. Dr. Pickard made some brief remarks, also Professor Henderson, and
the Congress closed with singing the Doxology and Benediction, 5 P. M.,
Sept. 26, 1900.

Next Congress, Kansas City, 1901.

       *       *       *       *       *

The above report was read at a meeting of the Pennsylvania Prison
Society, October 18, 1900. It was directed “that it be printed in the
Journal of 1901.”

  MRS. DEBORAH C. LEEDS,
  JOHN J. LYTLE,
  REV. R. HEBER BARNES, _Sec. Com._

 _Pennsylvania Official Delegates at Large from the Society._




TREASURER’S REPORT.

GEORGE W. HALL, _Treasurer_,

IN ACCOUNT WITH

THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.


  1900.                   DR.

  January 1.--To Balance                                         $ 670 94
               “ Income from Investments                         1,658 86
               “ Contributions and Membership                      402 00
               “ Interest on Deposits                               19 36
               “ Printing the Journal                               16 00
               “ Special, for Discharged Prisoners, Eastern
                   Penitentiary                                  3,675 62
               “ I. V. Williamson Estate                           468 00
               “ Income C. S. Williams Estate (In trust)            81 00
               “ Life Memberships                                   40 00
                                                                ---------
                                                                $7,031 78

  1900.                   CR.

  Dec.   31.--By Discharged Prisoners, Eastern Penitentiary     $2,139 03
               “ Salary John J. Lytle as General Secretary       1,000 00
               “ Discharged Prisoners, County Prison               675 00
               “ Salary Fred’k J. Pooley, County Prison Agent      750 00
               “ F. J. Pooley, special (extra service E. P.)        50 00
               “ C. S. Williams Estate to Home of Industry          81 00
               “ Janitor, fuel, library                            127 99
               “ Repair of office and stationery                   402 34
               “ J. J. Lytle, Prison Agent, Eastern Penitentiary   500 00
               “ Printing 5,000 Journals, mailing, etc.            421 53
               “ Balance, (and “Barton fund” $176.71)              884 89
                                                                ---------
                                                                $7,031 78

We have examined the vouchers for 1900, and find the cash balance
$884.89, and of the Barton fund $176.71. Also the securities, bonds
and mortgages, certificates, trust deposits, title and fire insurance
policies, were examined and found correct.

  CHARLES M. MORTON,
  R. HEBER BARNES,
  LINDLEY H. BEDELL,
  _Auditing Committee_.

PHILADELPHIA, _Feb. 1, 1901_.




DONATIONS RECEIVED

Since April 1st, 1900, to February 28th, 1901.


  Mrs. M. Lloyd                       $2 00
  Rev. James Shrigley                  2 00
  Prof. Joseph P. Remington            5 00
  George Kramer                        1 00
  S. Bartram Richards                  5 00
  Mrs. E. L. Metzgar                   3 00
  Gertrude Craig Roberts               3 00
  Mary P. F. Oberteuffer               3 00
  W. D. Mason                          5 00
  M. S. L. Rhoads                      2 00
  Samuel S. White, Jr.                 5 00
  Mary Evre Howell                    10 00
  L. D. Lovett, 1899-1900             20 00
  Richard Randolph, M. D.              1 00
  Mary Randolph                        1 00
  Mrs. Frederick Prime                 2 00
  Miss Thomson                         5 00
  Francis A. North                     5 00
  Julia D. Stroud                     10 00
  Mrs. L. S. Ladd                      5 00
  Joshua L. Baily                      5 00
  E. Hagert                            5 00
  E. W. Clark                         10 00
  John Bley                            5 00
  Peter M. Landis                      2 00
  Samuel Disston                       5 00
  Mrs. A. F. Miller                    1 00
  R. Metzgar & Son                     2 00
  Mrs. N. T. Clapp                     5 00
  William S. Magee                     5 00
  George W. Marshall                   2 00
  E. M. Middleton                      5 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  C. J. Marshall                       1 00
  M. L. Milligan                       2 00
  Emma C. Middleton                    5 00
  A. Miller                            1 00
  J. Vaughan Merrick, Jr.              1 00
  John L. Mickle                       2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Vincent McLaughlin                   2 00
  Mrs. Washington J. Landell           2 00
  Levi Mattson                         5 00
  John Lambert, Jr.                    5 00
  Mrs. J. B. Townsend                  5 00
  Abby Newhall                         5 00
  Miss C. Manderson                    1 00
  Mrs. M. A. McCoy                     2 00
  G. H. Stoiber                        5 00
  Laura M. Stoiber                     5 00
  Augusta McFadden                     1 00
  Vincent P. McCulley                  2 00
  Henry F. Mangus                      2 00
  George Vaux, Jr                      5 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  R. C. Shafges                        1 00
  J. Campbell Haywood                  5 00
  Thomas Mills                         2 00
  James McCurdy                        5 00
  Mrs. James M. Robb                   5 00
  Miss E. M. Maull                     5 00
  Anna E. Molloy                       5 00
  H. E. Niconel                        2 00
  McIllvaine Bros                      5 00
  Mrs. O. M. North                     5 00
  Joseph McDonald                      2 00
  A. Megonigle                         5 00
  Rev. Charles E. Milner               1 00
  Chloe A. McCann                      1 00
  Watson M. Null                       1 00
  M. C. McCahan                        2 00
  Eliza Y. McAllister                  2 00
  Edward Pennock                       2 00
  J. E. Nidecker                       2 00
  Mrs. C. Watson McKeehan              5 00
  Charles H. Reeves                    2 00
  Mrs. S. McKenney                     2 00
  Mrs. William Mencke                  2 00
  C. McClelland                        2 00
  Elwood Melcher                       1 00
  L. Mayer                             2 00
  H. Wolf                              1 00
  Thomas T. Nelson                     5 00
  Mrs. T. Turnbull                     2 00
  Mary McCullagh                       5 00
  Edward J. Newland                    1 00
  William T. Moffly                    1 00
  Jos. A. Heintzelman, M. D.           1 00
  L. Ashton Louder                     5 00
  Mrs. F. B. Haft                      5 00
  Robert M. Holbrook                   1 00
  J. F. Holt, M. D.                    1 00
  R. Hey & Son                         2 00
  Robert C. Thomas                     2 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  W. P. Henszey                        5 00
  J. F. Irons                          1 00
  Mrs. E. C. Idler                     2 00
  Adolph Hess                          2 00
  Rev. L. C. Hill                      1 00
  Samuel Hillman                       1 00
  Mrs. Sarah C. Hepburn                2 00
  James C. Brooks                      2 00
  William Ivins                       10 00
  Jacob Y. Dietz                      10 00
  C. Hanford Henderson                 5 00
  Benjamin T. Herkness                 5 00
  John McClintock                      3 00
  Miss Lawrence                        1 00
  E. M. Hewish, M. D.                  2 00
  J. Lewis Kates                       5 00
  Jacob L. Hershy                      1 00
  Mrs. R. K. Wright, Sr.               2 00
  Samuel P. Hiester                    2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Robert J. Hess, M. D.                5 00
  Nathaniel E. Janney                  1 00
  W. B. Jacobs                         5 00
  Daniel L. Hinckle                    2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  George F. Hoffman                    5 00
  John R. Ingham                       1 00
  Miss E. S. Wister                    5 00
  S. F. Hening                         1 00
  Mrs. E. J. Hortter                   1 00
  Miss H. A. Johnson                   2 00
  Charles P. Keith                     5 00
  Mrs. E. Jeffries                     2 00
  E. J. Kerrick                        2 00
  W. H. Kirkpatrick                    5 00
  Francis S. Keese                     2 00
  Mrs. John Jameson                    2 00
  F. E. Himmelwright, M. D.            5 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  E. E. Young                          2 00
  Mrs. E. Hodson                       1 00
  Miss R. Booth                        1 00
  Rev. E. Zartman                      1 00
  Morris A. Kaufman                    2 00
  Miss E. T. Zebley                    1 00
  S. M. Zacharas                       2 00
  Mrs. E. Clark                       10 00
  Samuel C. Perkins                    5 00
  Mrs. T. Charlton Henry              10 00
  Charles F. Jenkins                   5 00
  W. E. Littleton                      5 00
  R. W. Downing, Jr.                   5 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  W. H. Powell                         5 00
  John P. Mathieu                      5 00
  H. E. Brown                          5 00
  W. H. Jackson                        5 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  Frederick V. Yeager                  1 00
  E. J. Johnson                        1 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  F. W. Zoller                         2 00
  William G. Henry                     1 00
  Charles E. Ingersoll                 5 00
  A Friend                             2 00
  Andrew S. Jackson                    5 00
  H. C. Young                          2 00
  W. B. Keeler                         5 00
  Lewis A. Young                       2 00
  James P. Young                       5 00
  J. H. N.                             1 00
  Mrs. S. B. Yerkes                    2 00
  Mrs. Charles Heebner                 5 00
  Burnham, Williams & Co.             25 00
  C. M. Twaddell                       5 00
  Thomas Hewson Bache, M. D.           2 00
  Mrs. Matthew Semple                  5 00
  Alexander Peacock                    1 00
  Arthur G. Dixon                      5 00
  James S. Rogers                      2 00
  William E. Helme                     5 00
  Rev. R. C. Von Phul                  5 00
  W. J. McCahn, Jr.                    5 00
  H. C. Marland, M. D.                 1 00
  Pemberton Hollingsworth              5 00
  J. Ogden Hoffman                     5 00
  Albert L. Baily                      2 00
  Edward Cress                         1 00
  Miss M. Hurst                       20 00
  Dr. George G. Wise                   3 00
  William H. Magoffin                  5 00
  Francis B. Reeves                    2 00
  Mrs. J. M. Rommel                    2 00
  Edward Comfort                       5 00
  W. H. Gilbert                        2 00
  W. P. Letchworth                     2 00
  Charles W. Merritt                   1 00
  Mrs. Walker G. Sibley                5 00
  H. from a Friend                    10 00
  A. H. Old                            3 00
  Elizabeth W. Stephenson             20 00
  Clara S. Young                       5 00
  Charles W. Henry                    25 00
  Mrs. John Gillespie                  5 00
  Auguston Thomas                      5 00
  Miss Edith Yarrow                    1 00
  J. Willis Martin                    10 00
  Mrs. Joseph Harrison                15 00
  Asa S. Wing                         10 00
  Catharine M. Mullin                 10 00
  Louisa Alter                        10 00
  C. McNeely                          10 00
  Ellen B. A. Mitchener               10 00
  George B. Bonnell                    5 00
  Mrs. Willing                        30 00
  C. P. B. Jeffries                   10 00
  Mrs. Bryant Ferguson                 5 00
  John E. Carter.                      5 00
  E. M. Fagan                          5 00
  Edward Brown                         5 00
  Mrs. J. H. Brazier                   5 00
  George Harrison Fisher               5 00
  Mrs. W. H. Bacon                     5 00
  Mrs. J. Lewis Crozier               10 00
  James W. Cooke & Co.                 5 00
  Joseph S. Elkinton                   5 00
  H. C. Cochran                        5 00
  R. Y. Filbert                        5 00
  Mrs. S. R. Fox                       5 00
  Henry C. Davis                       5 00
  Finley Acker                         5 00
  Priscilla A. Wright                 25 00
  Jay Cooke                            5 00
  Thomas N. Ely                        5 00
  Enoch Lewis                         10 00
  Mr. & Mrs R. W. Birdrell             5 00
  Henry K. Wampole & Co.               5 00
  Mrs. James Caldwell                  1 00
  Hannah F. Caldwell                   5 00
  L. H. Carpenter                      3 00
  Sarah B. Cadwalader                  5 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  J. E. Challinger                     5 00
  J. G. Clark                          3 00
  James B. Chandler                    5 00
  Mrs. H. McK. Claxton                 3 00
  I. E. Chipley                        2 00
  W. P. Campbell                       2 00
  Murray Stewart Chism                 1 00
  Charles E. Cattell                   2 00
  Mrs. G. W. Dougherty                 1 00
  Mrs. V. B. Davis                     2 00
  Samuel Biddle                        5 00
  Mrs. George M. Converse              5 00
  H. A. Wood                          10 00
  Samuel Christian                     1 00
  Bodine, Altemus & Co.                5 00
  William P. Damon                     2 50
  Frank E. De Long                     5 00
  Mrs. M. S. Clement                   1 00
  A. M. Davis                          3 00
  Jacob L. Smith                      10 00
  Clarence H. Clark                    5 00
  Miss Jane Cooke                      5 00
  Mrs. P. W. DeCousey                  5 00
  Elizabeth Allen                      2 00
  Mary Branson, M. D.                  1 00
  Alexander E. Harvey                  5 00
  William Galloway                     5 00
  Mrs. Nathan H. Davis                 5 00
  Mrs. A. R. Clark                     5 00
  Charles A. Converse                  2 00
  Helena J. Blandner                   1 00
  C. N. Hutchinson                     5 00
  Dr. John B. Deaver                   2 00
  W. J. Graham                         2 00
  Mrs. W. D. Edson                     1 00
  Dr. Richard W. Deaver                2 00
  Catharine Begley                     1 00
  B. F. Greenewald                     5 00
  Charles Comly                       10 00
  C. S. Childs                         5 00
  John B. Chaplin                      5 00
  Morris, Wheeler & Co.               10 00
  W. Frekerick Snyder                  5 00
  Martha B. Earle                      2 00
  Charles Platt                        5 00
  Peter C. Moore                       1 00
  Mr. John P. Hubbard                  3 00
  Walter E. Hening                     2 00
  Murray & Wilson                      1 00
  Lukens & Whittington                 1 00
  Mrs. B. B. Comegys, Jr.              1 00
  Edwin G. Dreer                       5 00
  Rev. E. T. McMullin                  1 00
  John Price                           2 00
  Mrs. John Klemm                      2 00
  James T. Shinn                       2 00
  Lewis R. Diek                        2 00
  Margaret W. Haines                   5 00
  Sarah W. Rhoads                      2 00
  H. K. Mulford Co.                    5 00
  Isaac Saller                         1 00
  Helen Hunter                         1 00
  Mrs. W. Mitchell                     2 00
  Julius G. Weygandtt                  2 00
  Charles Richardson                   5 00
  Mrs. M. M. Crawford                  1 00
  Horace G. Lippincott                 2 00
  William J. Earhart                   5 00
  Dr. Benjamin K. Fletcher             2 00
  Mary S. Richards                     5 00
  Miss C. W. Burton                    3 00
  Mrs. Berwind                         2 00
  R. Francis Wood                     10 00
  Smith Harper                         1 00
  Edwin S. Johnston                    1 00
  Miss Ida V. Walraven                 2 00
  Mrs. Wm. P. Tatham                  10 00
  Joseph R. Smith                      3 00
  Thomas W. Sparks                     5 00
  Dr. C. N. Peirce                     2 00
  W. Kerr Shea, M. D.                  1 00
  James F. Magee                       5 00
  Louis Wolf                           5 00
  Arthur Malcolm                       2 00
  William S. Hallowell                 2 00
  Rebecca White                        5 00
  Mrs. Samuel S. White                 5 00
  George G. Williams                   5 00
  Joseph A. Sinn                       2 00
  William T. Murphy                    2 00
  A. Trimble                           1 00
  Elsie Wister Keith                  10 00
  Jones Unwiler                        2 00
  H. A. Mitchell                       2 00
  William Burnham                      3 00
  Charles Rhoads                       5 00
  Beulah M. Rhoads                     5 00
  Hon. Wm. N. Ashman                   3 00
  Dr. James Tyson                      2 00
  Anna H. Tierney                      5 00
  William Weightman                    5 00
  H. G. Tull                           1 00
  G. R. Rebman                         2 00
  W. L. Worcester                      3 00
  W. Graham Tyler                      5 00
  Louis Taws                           5 00
  Mrs. R. Porter                       5 00
  Mrs. Thos. S. Kirkbride              2 00
  Rynear Williams, Jr.                 5 00
  Mrs. F. L. Smith                     1 00
  Mary G. Wilkinson                    2 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  E. Aug. Miller                       2 00
  Edward A. Sibley                     5 00
  A. W. Wœbken                         5 00
  Barber & Perkin                      1 00
  Rev. George Van Dews                 2 00
  E. B. Warren                         5 00
  Frank H. Wyeth                       5 00
  George Ulrich                        5 00
  Charles W. Trotter                   5 00
  J. Runde Smith                      10 00
  Dr. W. C. Widmayer                   1 00
  E. W. & E. M. Wilkins                2 00
  Craig Lippincott                     5 00
  John D. Groves, M. D.                5 00
  John Simmons                         1 00
  Mrs. Wm. Simpson, Jr.                5 00
  D. Sulzberger                        2 00
  Richard P. Mason                     5 00
  William M. Morrison                  2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Bishop O. W. Whitaker                5 00
  N. R. Denis                          5 00
  R. H. Eastburn                       1 00
  V. F. Campbell                       1 00
  Mrs. Gillies Dallett                 2 00
  H. Dercum                            2 00
  E. J. Lavina                         2 00
  William Evans, M. D.                 1 00
  William J. Latta                     2 00
  James G. Conway                      1 00
  James Spear                          3 00
  Henry F. Coates & Co.                5 00
  Mrs. J. Manderson                    5 00
  Miss E. Bradford                     3 00
  Mrs. H. Howe                         5 00
  Mrs. W. C. Hadley                    3 00
  Elizabeth B. Garrett                 3 00
  Martha H. Garrett                    3 00
  Hetty B. Garrett                     3 00
  P. B. Welsh                          2 00
  G. H. Deacon                         1 00
  C. F. Wilson                         5 00
  S. Thanhauser                        1 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  Barclay R. Leeds                     5 00
  A Friend                             2 00
  Mrs. R. S. Lawson                    1 00
  W. Sidebottom                        5 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Mary M. Edwards                      2 00
  Joseph S. Keen                       5 00
  E. W. Clark                         10 00
  Rev. Marvin J. Eckels                5 00
  Helen B. Davids                      2 00
  Miss S. F. Cassidy                   1 00
  Evans R. Dick                        5 00
  A. Leberman                          2 00
  Milton C. Lazar                      1 00
  J. B. Faulkner                       2 00
  Mrs. D. M. Zimmerman                 2 00
  Rev. Charles F. Kavanagh             5 00
  Miss Emily Campbell                  2 00
  R. A. Caskey                         1 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  M. E. Twaddell                       5 00
  Strawbridge & Clothier               5 00
  Anna M. Sterling                     5 00
  The Misses Glading                   5 00
  Mrs. J. S. Cox                       2 00
  Mrs. Hollingsworth Whyte             5 00
  William C. Warren                    3 00
  Smith & Dreer                        2 00
  Emily M. Smyth                       5 00
  Morse, Williams & Co.                2 00
  Jennie L. Powell                     2 00
  McCambridge & Co.                    2 00
  Anna Kaign Smith                     5 00
  Anna M. Gumpert                      2 00
  Fred W. Herman                       2 00
  Joseph Hill Brinton                  2 00
  Wood Gilpin                          2 00
  Miss Mattie Landis                   3 00
  Lettitia P. Collins                  5 00
  Bishop C. D. Foss                    3 00
  Mrs. William Waterall                2 00
  N. Snellenburg & Co.                 5 00
  David Teller                         2 00
  Thomas E. Gaskill                    5 00
  Mrs. B. M. Plummer                   1 00
  Elizabeth D. Banes                   1 00
  Mrs. C. A. Wentz                     5 00
  A. W. Wisler                         1 00
  Edmund Willits                       1 00
  E. K. Shelmerdine                    5 00
  Herbert B. Loeb                      1 00
  John Lloyd                           2 00
  J. Bertram Lippincott                5 00
  J. H. Ellis                          2 00
  Joseph W. Lippincott                 1 00
  Mrs. S. H. Fay                       5 00
  John P. P. Lathrop                   2 00
  Mrs. Aug. Lessig                     2 00
  Jacob D. Litt                        5 00
  Mrs. Charles E. Lex                  2 00
  James W. Lehman                      1 00
  Arno Leonhardt                       2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  George H. Cliff                      1 00
  Elizabeth W. Cooke                   2 00
  Master Harry D. Lentz, Jr.           1 00
  Max B. Loeb                          2 00
  B. K. Locke                          1 00
  John A. Schulze                      2 00
  Frank R. Whiteside                   2 00
  Elizabeth N. Garrett                 2 00
  S. Harvey Thomas                     2 00
  Wilfred Lewis                        1 00
  Isabel A. deSchwintz                 2 50
  Samuel J. Levy                       5 00
  D. N. K. Schwenck                    1 00
  Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Zimmerman         2 00
  Mrs. A. E. Campbell                  1 00
  S. Morris Lillie                     3 00
  John Tatum                           2 00
  W. Hinckle Smith                     5 00
  H. O. Wilbur                         5 00
  A. Alvarengo                         1 00
  Russell H. Johnson, Jr.              1 00
  J. J. de Macedo, Jr.                 1 00
  Frank P. Gallagher                   1 00
  A. E. Gallagher                      1 00
  A. Lans                              4 00
  W. G. Rolph                          2 00
  Mrs. Charles M. Taylor, Jr.          5 00
  Rev. J. A. Lippincott                3 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  Robert F. Innis                      3 00
  Ashton S. Tourison                   2 00
  James G. Thayer                      2 00
  Francis T. S. Dailey                10 00
  Mr. and Mrs. Andrew San Alvarez      1 00
  Miss Emma Parmalee                   1 00
  James E. Talley, M. D.               2 00
  B. C. Tilghman                       5 00
  George Widener                       2 00
  H. M. Sharpless                      1 00
  Miss A. K. Selig                     3 00
  Mrs. Van Pelt                        2 00
  R. Greenwood                         1 00
  Charles C. Savage                   15 00
  H. M. Nathanson                      5 00
  William H. Thome                     2 00
  Henry Veit                           2 00
  Mrs. C. A. Topping                   2 00
  James Martin                         2 00
  Samuel J. Randall, Jr.               1 00
  Horace E. Taylor                     1 00
  A. P. Townsend                       1 00
  William Wagner                       1 00
  S. Finley Thompson                   5 00
  Mrs. Joseph L. Tull                  1 00
  Mrs. E. C. Lewis                     2 00
  Mrs. Henry J. Walter                 1 00
  Harriet H. McClellan                 2 00
  Mrs. Mamie C. Stinson                5 00
  Miss Sue E. Nagle                    1 00
  Henry M. Lewis                       5 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  Miss C. S. Thompson                  1 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  John G. Schall’s Sons                2 00
  L. Harry Richards, Jr.               1 00
  D. S. Acker                          5 00
  George W. Baily                      5 00
  Thomas P. Covington                  2 00
  Sarah E. Williams                    2 00
  Francis O. Alcott                    5 00
  William L. Allen                     1 00
  George Allen, Jr.                    1 00
  Rev. E. W. Appleton                  5 00
  E. W. Dunton                         5 00
  Louisa Gibbons Davis                 2 00
  Samuel Wolfe, M.D.                   2 00
  Charles F. Taylor, M.D.              5 00
  Frank Teller                         1 00
  F. D. Abbott                         1 00
  Henry Jones                          1 00
  Mrs. George Childs Drexel           25 00
  Charles A. Kurlbaum                  2 00
  Mrs. L. M. Anschutz                  5 00
  Paul E. Huneker                      5 00
  Oliver Hough                         1 00
  William G. Huey                      1 00
  G. A. Bisler                         2 00
  William A. Ingham                   10 00
  Max Kohn                             2 00
  Walter A. Bailey                     2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Miss Lottie A. Arnold                2 00
  Abraham M. Kohn                      2 00
  Frank K. Hipple                      2 00
  Harold Peirce                       10 00
  Mrs. Harold Peirce                  10 00
  William Fisher Lewis                 5 00
  S. Wertheimer                        1 00
  T. P. Huff                           2 00
  Hon. J. B. McPherson                 3 00
  Jane C. Selden                       1 00
  Edwin N. Benson                      5 00
  Elizabeth M. Wilgur                  2 00
  Francis Donaldson                    2 00
  G. H. Macauley                       5 00
  Mrs. Joseph Young                    2 00
  C. S. MacCain                        2 00
  Professor D. W. Howard               1 00
  James P. Hutchinson                  5 00
  Mrs. Edward Baily                    1 00
  J. B. Lyman                          1 00
  Charles M. Fox, M.D.                 5 00
  Thomas A. Kershaw                    1 00
  Lawrence Johnson                     5 00
  W. W. Burr                           2 00
  Harry Godey                          5 00
  Elizabeth B. Sloan                   1 00
  Rev. William Bannard                 1 00
  Morris T. Knight                     1 00
  Azariah W. Hoopes                    2 00
  William Krause                       2 00
  T. McOwen                           10 00
  Rev. Joseph Krauskopt                5 00
  Mrs. Morris Liveright                2 00
  William MacLean, Jr.                 3 00
  Miss Gertrude Bartlett               1 00
  Samuel P. Huhn                       5 00
  Theodore J. Lewis                    3 00
  Cash                                 3 00
  J. B. Habecker                       1 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Mrs. Samuel Horner                   2 00
  R. W. Steel                          5 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  J. G. Rosengarten                   10 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Cash                                 5 00
  C. S. Warts                          5 00
  Lyman B. Hall                        2 00
  Mrs. Alexander Van Rennsalaer       50 00
  Mrs. S. R. Wiggins                   1 00
  F. T. Bieber                         1 00
  Anne Thompson                       10 00
  John Jay Gilroy                      2 00
  A. H. Hulshiger                      2 00
  W. S. Kriehl                         1 00
  A. Petre                             5 00
  C. C. A. Baldi                       2 00
  Miss Husband                         2 00
  Mrs. Ingraham                        2 00
  Edward Batchelor                     1 00
  Z. Z. Howell                         2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  George W. Lynch, Jr.                 2 00
  Silena Patterson Hughes              5 00
  Z. L. Howell                         2 00
  Mrs. M. D. Atkinson                  2 00
  A. W. Kelsey                        10 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  George M. Junkin                    10 00
  Miss Anne Law Hubbell                1 00
  Miss H. Hubbell                      1 00
  Mary J. Barr                         1 00
  Mrs. D. L. Hopper                    1 00
  Charles E. Milnor                    2 00
  John Hunsberger                      1 00
  Josephine R. Page                    5 00
  Mrs. W. Adger                        2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  James Barker                         2 00
  Charles H. Thompson                  2 00
  J. Bell Austin                       2 00
  Mrs. G. W. Buttnunth                 2 00
  William J. Jordan                    1 00
  Thomas H. B. Hull                   10 00
  Mrs. Reath                           5 00
  Peter Klein                          2 00
  Jesse Lukens                         2 00
  Francis Yarnall                      1 00
  Cash                                 2 00
  Mrs. John Baird                      5 00
  Henrietta Louisa Exton               2 00
  George N. Colket                     5 00
  D. Macfarlan, M. D.                  1 00
  W. W. Frazier                        5 00
  Rev. Charles Wood                    5 00
  Mrs. J. B. Levering                  5 00
  Mrs. John T. Lewis                   1 00
  Mary C. Greenough                   10 00
  William Ostrander                    2 00
  Franklin S. Horn                     2 00
  John J. Horn                         2 00
  Francis S. Williams                  1 00
  George Wood                          5 00
  Walter B. Smith                      5 00
  Professor B. S. Banks                1 00
  Doctor & Mrs. Chas. H. Thomas       15 00
  James S. McCain                      1 00
  S. E. R. Hassinger                   2 00
  Frank H. Ransom                      5 00
  James Hay                            5 00
  Ellen B. & Everett Stewart           5 00
  Rev. James P. James                  5 00
  Mrs. Edward G. Sanger                3 00
  Stuart Farren Smith                  5 00
  Sarah E. Neath                       2 00
  J. W. Hyzer                          2 00
  E. Allen                             1 00
  Moyer Fleisher                       5 00
  Mrs. James Boice                     1 00
  Emma T. Schreiner                    3 00
  M. B. Woodward                       5 00
  V. W. Walter                         2 00
  Mrs. Louise T. Simpson               3 00
  Mary R. Fox                         15 00
  Hannah Fox                          10 00
  M. E. Addams                         2 00
  Mrs. S. A. Willoughby                2 00
  Mrs. William F. North                2 00
  Rev. Fleming James                   2 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Sarah E. Moore                       2 00
  Anna P. Stevenson                    2 00
  S. Pearley Howe                      1 00
  Walter Ross McShea                   2 00
  Samuel W. Barnes                     1 00
  William C. Rommell                   1 00
  B. S. H.                            50 00
  Robert K. McNeely                    5 00
  James H. Windrim                     5 00
  Miss M. K. Gibson                   10 00
  Miss Anna Frazier                    5 00
  D. Allen Knight                      5 00
  Cash                                 1 00
  Cash                                 3 00
  Charles B. Dunn                      5 00
  C. D. Barney                         5 00
  John H. Lewars                       5 00
  W. Brentwood Smith                   5 00
  Sarah Edythe Wister                  5 00
  John F. Craig                        1 00
  Edward Iredick                       1 00
  John J. Henry                        5 00
  William C. Lowry                     5 00
  Henry H. Collins                    10 00
  Fleming Park                         1 00
  John F. Palmer                       2 00
  John Reilly                          5 00
  Mrs. George W. Biddle                5 00
  F. T. Fawcett                        5 00
  J. Sellers Barnes                    5 00
  Mrs. E. Franklin Garrett             1 00
  S. J. Eastman                        3 00
  C. A. Helme                          5 00
  W. F. Schwartz                       2 00
  Mrs. J. Lowber Welsh                 5 00


FORM OF BEQUEST OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

I give and bequeath to “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY” the sum of
____ Dollars.


FORM OF DEVISE OF REAL ESTATE.

I give and devise to “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY” all that certain
piece or parcel of land. (Here describe the property.)


ARTICLE V.

The Acting Committee shall consist of officers of the Society, _ex
officio_, and fifty other members. They shall visit the prison at
least twice a month, inquire into the circumstances of the prisoners
and report such abuses as they shall discover to the proper officers
appointed to remedy them. They shall examine the influence of
confinement on the morals of the prisoners. They shall keep regular
minutes of their proceedings, which shall be submitted at every stated
meeting of the Society; and shall be authorized to fill vacancies,
occurring in their own body, whether arising from death or removal
from the city, or from inability or neglect to visit the prisons in
accordance with their regulations. They shall also have the sole power
of electing new members.


ARTICLE VI.

Candidates for membership may be proposed at any meeting of the
Society or of the Acting Committee; but no election shall take place
within ten days after such nomination. Each member shall pay an annual
contribution of two dollars. If any member neglects or refuses to pay
such contribution within three months, after due notice has been given
such person, the Acting Committee may, at its option, strike said name
from the list of members. The payment of twenty dollars at any one time
shall constitute a Life Membership. Any person paying not less than
five hundred dollars shall be called a Patron of the Society.


ARTICLE VII.

Honorary members may be elected at such times as the Society may deem
expedient.


ARTICLE VIII.

The Society shall hold an Annual Meeting on the fourth Fifth-day
(Thursday) in the First month (January) of each year, and Stated
Meetings on the fourth Fifth-day (Thursday) in the months of April,
July and October; at which seven shall constitute a quorum.


ARTICLE IX.

No alteration in the Constitution shall be made, unless the same shall
have been proposed at a Stated Meeting of the Society, held not less
than three months previous to the adoption of such alteration; and
no such amendment shall be adopted unless approved by the votes of
three-fourths of the members present.

The Secretary shall state on the notices of that meeting that an
amendment or amendments to the Constitution will be acted upon. All
other questions shall be decided, when there is a division, by a
majority of votes; in those where the Society is equally divided, the
presiding officer shall have the casting vote.


OF VISITORS.

No person who is not an official visitor of the prison, or who has not
a written permission, according to such rules as the Inspectors may
adopt as aforesaid, shall be allowed to visit the same; the official
visitors are: the Governor; the Speaker and members of the Senate; the
Speaker and members of the House of Representatives; the Secretary of
the Commonwealth; the Judges of the Supreme Court; the Attorney-General
and his Deputies; the President and Associate Judges of all the courts
in the State; the Mayor and Recorders of the cities of Philadelphia,
Lancaster, and Pittsburg; Commissioners and Sheriffs of the several
Counties; and the “Acting Committee of the Philadelphia Society for
Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons.” (Note: Now named The
Pennsylvania Prison Society.)




AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the
Miseries of Public Prisons.


SECTION 1. _Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General Assembly met, and it is
hereby enacted by the authority of the same_, That all and every the
persons who shall at the time of the passing of this Act, be members
of the Society called “The Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the
Miseries of Public Prisons,” shall be and they are hereby created and
declared to be one body, politic and corporate, by the name, style,
and title of “The Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries of
Public Prisons,” and by the same name shall have perpetual succession,
and shall be able to sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded in all
courts of record or elsewhere, and to take and receive, hold and enjoy,
by purchase, grant, devise, or bequest to them and their successors,
lands, tenements, rents, annuities, franchises, hereditaments, goods,
and chattels of whatsoever nature, kind, or quality soever, real,
personal or mixed, or choses in action, and the same from time to
time to sell, grant, devise, alien, or dispose of; _provided_, That
the clear yearly value or income of the necessary houses, lands, and
tenements, rents, annuities, and other hereditaments, and real estate
of the said corporation, and the interest of money by it lent, shall
not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars; and also to make and have
a common seal, and the same to break, alter, and renew at pleasure;
and also to ordain, establish and put in execution, such by-laws,
ordinances, and regulations as shall appear necessary and convenient
for the government of the said corporation, not being contrary to
this Charter or the Constitution and laws of the United States, or of
this Commonwealth, and generally to do all and singular the matters
and things which to them it shall lawfully appertain to do for the
well-being of the said corporation, and the due management and ordering
of the affairs thereof; and provided further, that the object of the
Society shall be confined to the alleviation of the miseries of public
prisons, the improvement of prison discipline, and the relief of
discharged prisoners.

  SAM’L ANDERSON, _Speaker of House_.
  THOS. RINGLAND, _Speaker of Senate_.

Approved the 6th day of April, Anno Domini Eighteen Hundred and
Thirty-three.

  GEORGE WOLF.


LEGAL CHANGE OF NAME.

The Following Confirms the Action Relative to the Change of the Name of
the Prison Society.


 Decree:

 And now, to wit, this 27th day of January, A. D., 1886, on motion of
 A. Sidney Biddle, Esq., the Petition and Application for change of
 name filed by “The Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries
 of Public Prisons,” having been presented and considered, and it
 appearing that the order of court heretofore made as to advertisement
 has been duly compiled with and due notice of said application to
 the Auditor General of the State of Pennsylvania being shown, it is
 Ordered, Adjudged, and Decreed that the name of the said Society
 shall hereafter be “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY,” to all intents
 and purposes as if the same had been the original name of the said
 Society, and the same name shall be deemed and taken to be a part
 of the Charter of the said Society upon the recording of the said
 Application with its indorsements and this Decree in the office of the
 Recorder of Deeds of this County, and upon filing with the Auditor
 General a Copy of this Decree.

  [Signed]      JOSEPH ALLISON.


 Record:

 Recorded in the office for the Recording of Deeds in and for the City
 and County of Philadelphia, on Charter Book No. 11, page 1064. Witness
 my hand and seal of Office this 28th day of June, A. D. 1886.

  GEO. G. PIERIE, _Recorder of Deeds_.


[Transcriber’s Note:

Obvious printer errors corrected silently.

Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation are as in the original.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of Prison Discipline and
Philanthropy (New Series, No. 40), by The Pennsylvania Prison Society

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE, NO. 40 ***

***** This file should be named 56904-0.txt or 56904-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/9/0/56904/

Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Wayne Hammond and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

